The Fulton County Grand Jury said Friday an investigation 
of Atlanta's recent primary election produced "no evidence" that 
any irregularities took place.   The jury further said in term-end 
presentments that the City Executive Committee, which had over-all 
charge of the election, "deserves the praise and thanks of the 
City of Atlanta" for the manner in which the election was conducted.

The September-October term jury had been charged by Fulton 
Superior Court Judge Durwood Pye to investigate reports of possible 
"irregularities" in the hard-fought primary which was won by 
Mayor-nominate Ivan Allen Jr&.   "Only a relative handful 
of such reports was received", the jury said, "considering the 
widespread interest in the election, the number of voters and the size 
of this city".   The jury said it did find that many of Georgia's 
registration and election laws "are outmoded or inadequate 
and often ambiguous".   It recommended that Fulton legislators 
act "to have these laws studied and revised to the end of modernizing 
and improving them".   The grand jury commented on a number 
of other topics, among them the Atlanta and Fulton County purchasing 
departments which it said "are well operated and follow generally 
accepted practices which inure to the best interest of both governments". 

#MERGER PROPOSED#

However, the jury said it believes "these 
two offices should be combined to achieve greater efficiency and reduce 
the cost of administration".   The City Purchasing Department, 
the jury said, "is lacking in experienced clerical personnel 
as a result of city personnel policies". It urged that the city "take 
steps to remedy" this problem.   Implementation of Georgia's 
automobile title law was also recommended by the outgoing jury.

It urged that the next Legislature "provide enabling funds 
and re-set the effective date so that an orderly implementation of 
the law may be effected".   The grand jury took a swipe at the 
State Welfare Department's handling of federal funds granted for 
child welfare services in foster homes.   "This is one of the 
major items in the Fulton County general assistance program", the 
jury said, but the State Welfare Department "has seen fit to distribute 
these funds through the welfare departments of all the counties 
in the state with the exception of Fulton County, which receives 
none of this money.   The jurors said they realize "a proportionate 
distribution of these funds might disable this program in our less 
populous counties".   Nevertheless, "we feel that in the 
future Fulton County should receive some portion of these available 
funds", the jurors said. "Failure to do this will continue to place 
a disproportionate burden" on Fulton taxpayers.   The jury 
also commented on the Fulton ordinary's court which has been under 
fire for its practices in the appointment of appraisers, guardians and 
administrators and the awarding of fees and compensation. 

#WARDS PROTECTED# 

The jury said it found the court "has incorporated into 
its operating procedures the recommendations" of two previous grand 
juries, the Atlanta Bar Association and an interim citizens committee.

"These actions should serve to protect in fact and in effect the court's wards from undue costs and its appointed and elected servants from unmeritorious criticisms", the jury said.   Regarding Atlanta's new multi-million-dollar airport, the jury recommended "that when the new management takes charge Jan& 1 the airport be operated in a manner that will eliminate political influences".

The jury did not elaborate, but it added that "there should be periodic surveillance of the pricing practices of the concessionaires for the purpose of keeping the prices reasonable".

#ASK JAIL DEPUTIES#

On other matters, the jury recommended that: _(1)_ Four additional deputies be employed at the Fulton County Jail and "a doctor, medical intern or extern be employed for night and weekend duty at the jail". _(2)_ Fulton legislators "work with city officials to pass enabling legislation that will permit the establishment of a fair and equitable" pension plan for city employes.

The jury praised the administration and operation of the Atlanta Police Department, the Fulton Tax Commissioner's Office, the Bellwood and Alpharetta prison farms, Grady Hospital and the Fulton Health Department.

Mayor William B& Hartsfield filed suit for divorce from his wife, Pearl Williams Hartsfield, in Fulton Superior Court Friday. His petition charged mental cruelty.   The couple was married Aug& 2, 1913. They have a son, William Berry Jr&, and a daughter, Mrs& J& M& Cheshire of Griffin.   Attorneys for the mayor said that an amicable property settlement has been agreed upon.   The petition listed the mayor's occupation as "attorney" and his age as 71. It listed his wife's age as 74 and place of birth as Opelika, Ala&.   The petition said that the couple has not lived together as man and wife for more than a year.

The Hartsfield home is at 637 E& Pelham Rd& ~NE.

Henry L& Bowden was listed on the petition as the mayor's attorney.

Hartsfield has been mayor of Atlanta, with exception of one brief interlude, since 1937. His political career goes back to his election to city council in 1923.   The mayor's present term of office expires Jan& 1. He will be succeeded by Ivan Allen Jr&, who became a candidate in the Sept& 13 primary after Mayor Hartsfield announced that he would not run for reelection.

Georgia Republicans are getting strong encouragement to enter a candidate in the 1962 governor's race, a top official said Wednesday.

Robert Snodgrass, state ~GOP chairman, said a meeting held Tuesday night in Blue Ridge brought enthusiastic responses from the audience.   State Party Chairman James W& Dorsey added that enthusiasm was picking up for a state rally to be held Sept& 8 in Savannah at which newly elected Texas Sen& John Tower will be the featured speaker.   In the Blue Ridge meeting, the audience was warned that entering a candidate for governor would force it to take petitions out into voting precincts to obtain the signatures of registered voters.   Despite the warning, there was a unanimous vote to enter a candidate, according to Republicans who attended.

When the crowd was asked whether it wanted to wait one more term to make the race, it voted no- and there were no dissents.

The largest hurdle the Republicans would have to face is a 
state law which says that before making a first race, one of two alternative 
courses must be taken: _1._ Five per cent of the voters 
in each county must sign petitions requesting that the Republicans be 
allowed to place names of candidates on the general election ballot, 
or _2._ The Republicans must hold a primary under the county unit 
system- a system which the party opposes in its platform.

Sam Caldwell, State Highway Department public relations director, 
resigned Tuesday to work for Lt& Gov& Garland Byrd's 
campaign.   Caldwell's resignation had been expected for some 
time. He will be succeeded by Rob Ledford of Gainesville, who has 
been an assistant more than three years. When the gubernatorial campaign 
starts, Caldwell is expected to become a campaign coordinator for 
Byrd.

The Georgia Legislature will wind up its 1961 session Monday 
and head for home- where some of the highway bond money it approved 
will follow shortly.   Before adjournment Monday afternoon, the 
Senate is expected to approve a study of the number of legislators 
allotted to rural and urban areas to determine what adjustments should 
be made.   Gov& Vandiver is expected to make the traditional 
visit to both chambers as they work toward adjournment. Vandiver likely 
will mention the $100 million highway bond issue approved earlier 
in the session as his first priority item. 

#CONSTRUCTION BONDS#

Meanwhile, 
it was learned the State Highway Department is very near 
being ready to issue the first $30 million worth of highway reconstruction 
bonds.   The bond issue will go to the state courts for a 
friendly test suit to test the validity of the act, and then the sales 
will begin and contracts let for repair work on some of Georgia's 
most heavily traveled highways.   A Highway Department source 
said there also is a plan there to issue some $3 million to $4 million 
worth of Rural Roads Authority bonds for rural road construction work. 

#A REVOLVING FUND#

The department apparently intends to make 
the Rural Roads Authority a revolving fund under which new bonds would 
be issued every time a portion of the old ones are paid off by tax 
authorities.   Vandiver opened his race for governor in 1958 with 
a battle in the Legislature against the issuance of $50 million worth 
of additional rural roads bonds proposed by then Gov& Marvin 
Griffin.   The Highway Department source told The Constitution, 
however, that Vandiver has not been consulted yet about the plans 
to issue the new rural roads bonds.

Schley County Rep& B& D& Pelham will offer a resolution 
Monday in the House to rescind the body's action of Friday in 
voting itself a $10 per day increase in expense allowances.   Pelham 
said Sunday night there was research being done on whether the 
"quickie" vote on the increase can be repealed outright or whether 
notice would have to first be given that reconsideration of the action 
would be sought.   While emphasizing that technical details were 
not fully worked out, Pelham said his resolution would seek to set 
aside the privilege resolution which the House voted through 87-31.

A similar resolution passed in the Senate by a vote of 29-5. 
As of Sunday night, there was no word of a resolution being offered 
there to rescind the action.   Pelham pointed out that Georgia 
voters last November rejected a constitutional amendment to allow legislators 
to vote on pay raises for future Legislature sessions.

A veteran Jackson County legislator will ask the Georgia House 
Monday to back federal aid to education, something it has consistently 
opposed in the past.   Rep& Mac Barber of Commerce is 
asking the House in a privilege resolution to "endorse increased federal 
support for public education, provided that such funds be received 
and expended" as state funds.   Barber, who is in his 13th 
year as a legislator, said there "are some members of our congressional 
delegation in Washington who would like to see it (the resolution) 
passed". But he added that none of Georgia's congressmen specifically 
asked him to offer the resolution.   The resolution, which 
Barber tossed into the House hopper Friday, will be formally read 
Monday. It says that "in 
the event Congress does provide this increase in federal funds", the 
State Board of Education should be directed to "give priority" 
to teacher pay raises. _COLQUITT_- After a long, hot controversy, 
Miller County has a new school superintendent, elected, as a 
policeman put it, in the "coolest election I ever saw in this county".

The new school superintendent is Harry Davis, a veteran 
agriculture teacher, who defeated Felix Bush, a school principal and 
chairman of the Miller County Democratic Executive Committee.

Davis received 1,119 votes in Saturday's election, and Bush 
got 402. Ordinary Carey Williams, armed with a pistol, stood by at 
the polls to insure order.   "This was the coolest, calmest 
election I ever saw", Colquitt Policeman Tom Williams said. "Being 
at the polls was just like being at church. I didn't smell 
a drop of liquor, and we didn't have a bit of trouble".   The 
campaign leading to the election was not so quiet, however. It was 
marked by controversy, anonymous midnight phone calls and veiled threats 
of violence.   The former county school superintendent, George 
P& Callan, shot himself to death March 18, four days after he 
resigned his post in a dispute with the county school board.   During 
the election campaign, both candidates, Davis and Bush, reportedly 
received anonymous telephone calls. Ordinary Williams said he, 
too, was subjected to anonymous calls soon after he scheduled the election.

Many local citizens feared that there would be irregularities 
at the polls, and Williams got himself a permit to carry a gun 
and promised an orderly election.   Sheriff Felix Tabb said the 
ordinary apparently made good his promise.   "Everything went 
real smooth", the sheriff said. "There wasn't a bit of trouble". 
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- Committee approval of Gov& Price Daniel's 
"abandoned property" act seemed certain Thursday despite the adamant 
protests of Texas bankers.   Daniel personally led the fight 
for the measure, which he had watered down considerably since its 
rejection by two previous Legislatures, in a public hearing before 
the House Committee on Revenue and Taxation.   Under committee 
rules, it went automatically to a subcommittee for one week. But 
questions with which committee members taunted bankers appearing as witnesses 
left little doubt that they will recommend passage of it.

Daniel termed "extremely conservative" his estimate that it would 
produce 17 million dollars to help erase an anticipated deficit of 
63 million dollars at the end of the current fiscal year next Aug& 
31.   He told the committee the measure would merely provide means 
of enforcing the escheat law which has been on the books "since 
Texas was a republic". It permits the state to take over bank accounts, 
stocks and other personal property of persons missing for seven 
years or more.   The bill, which Daniel said he drafted personally, 
would force banks, insurance firms, pipeline companies and other 
corporations to report such property to the state treasurer. The escheat 
law cannot be enforced now because it is almost impossible to locate 
such property, Daniel declared.   Dewey Lawrence, a Tyler 
lawyer representing the Texas Bankers Association, sounded the opposition 
keynote when he said it would force banks to violate their contractual 
obligations with depositors and undermine the confidence of bank 
customers.   "If you destroy confidence in banks, you do something 
to the economy", he said. "You take out of circulation many 
millions of dollars".   Rep& Charles E& Hughes of Sherman, 
sponsor of the bill, said a failure to enact it would amount "to 
making a gift out of the taxpayers' pockets to banks, insurance 
and pipeline companies".   His contention was denied by several 
bankers, including Scott Hudson of Sherman, Gaynor B& Jones 
of Houston, J& B& Brady of Harlingen and Howard Cox of Austin.

Cox argued that the bill is "probably unconstitutional" 
since, he said, it would impair contracts.   He also complained 
that not enough notice was given on the hearing, since the bill was 
introduced only last Monday. 

_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- Senators unanimously approved Thursday the bill 
of Sen& George Parkhouse of Dallas authorizing establishment 
of day schools for the deaf in Dallas and the four other largest counties.

The bill is designed to provide special schooling for more 
deaf students in the scholastic age at a reduced cost to the state.

There was no debate as the Senate passed the bill on to the 
House.   It would authorize the Texas Education Agency to establish 
county-wide day schools for the deaf in counties of 300,000 or 
more population, require deaf children between 6 and 13 years of age 
to attend the day schools, permitting older ones to attend the residential 
Texas School for the Deaf here.   Operating budget for the 
day schools in the five counties of Dallas, Harris, Bexar, Tarrant 
and El Paso would be $451,500, which would be a savings of $157,460 
yearly after the first year's capital outlay of $88,000 was absorbed, 
Parkhouse told the Senate.   The ~TEA estimated there 
would be 182 scholastics to attend the day school in Dallas County, 
saving them from coming to Austin to live in the state deaf school. 
#@#

{DALLAS MAY GET} to hear a debate on horse race 
parimutuels 
soon between Reps& V& E& (Red) Berry and Joe Ratcliff.

While details are still be to worked out, Ratcliff said 
he expects to tell home folks in Dallas why he thinks Berry's proposed 
constitutional amendment should be rejected.   "We're 
getting more 'pro' letters than 'con' on horse race betting", 
said Ratcliff. "But I believe if people were better informed on 
this question, most of them would oppose it also. I'm willing to stake 
my political career on it".   Rep& Berry, an ex-gambler 
from San Antonio, got elected on his advocacy of betting on the ponies. 
A House committee which heard his local option proposal is expected 
to give it a favorable report, although the resolution faces hard 
sledding later. #@#

{THE HOUSE} passed finally, and 
sent 
to the Senate, a bill extending the State Health Department's 
authority to give planning assistance to cities. #@#

{THE 
SENATE} 
quickly whipped through its meager fare of House bills approved 
by committees, passing the three on the calendar. One validated acts 
of school districts. Another enlarged authority of the Beaumont 
Navigation District.   The third amended the enabling act for 
creation of the Lamar county Hospital District, for which a special 
constitutional amendment previously was adopted. #@#

{WITHOUT 
DISSENT}, 
senators passed a bill by Sen& A& R& Schwartz 
of Galveston authorizing establishment in the future of a school for 
the mentally retarded in the Gulf Coast district. Money for its construction 
will be sought later on but in the meantime the State Hospital 
board can accept gifts and donations of a site. #@#

{TWO 
TAX REVISION} 
bills were passed. One, by Sen& Louis Crump of 
San Saba, would aid more than 17,000 retailers who pay a group of 
miscellaneous excise taxes by eliminating the requirement that each return 
be notarized. Instead, retailers would sign a certificate of correctness, 
violation of which would carry a penalty of one to five years 
in prison, plus a $1,000 fine. It was one of a series of recommendations 
by the Texas Research League. #@#

{THE OTHER BILL}, 
by Sen& A& M& Aikin Jr& of Paris, would relieve real 
estate brokers, who pay their own annual licensing fee, from the $12 annual 
occupation license on brokers in such as stocks and bonds. #@# 

{NATURAL GAS} 
public utility companies would be given the right 
of eminent domain, under a bill by Sen& Frank Owen /3, of 
El Paso, to acquire sites for underground storage reservoirs for gas. 
#@#

{MARSHALL FORMBY} of Plainview, former chairman 
of 
the Texas Highway Commission, suggested a plan to fill by appointment 
future vacancies in the Legislature and Congress, eliminating the 
need for costly special elections.   Under Formby's plan, an 
appointee would be selected by a board composed of the governor, lieutenant 
governor, speaker of the House, attorney general and chief justice 
of the Texas Supreme Court. 
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- State representatives decided Thursday against 
taking a poll on what kind of taxes Texans would prefer to pay.

An adverse vote of 81 to 65 kept in the State Affairs Committee 
a bill which would order the referendum on the April 4 ballot, when 
Texas votes on a U&S& senator.   Rep& Wesley Roberts 
of Seminole, sponsor of the poll idea, said that further delay in the 
committee can kill the bill.   The West Texan reported that 
he had finally gotten Chairman Bill Hollowell of the committee to set 
it for public hearing on Feb& 22. The proposal would have to receive 
final legislative approval, by two-thirds majorities, before March 
1 to be printed on the April 4 ballot, Roberts said.   Opponents 
generally argued that the ballot couldn't give enough information 
about tax proposals for the voters to make an intelligent choice.

All Dallas members voted with Roberts, except Rep& Bill 
Jones, who was absent. 
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- Paradise lost to the alleged water needs of Texas' 
big cities Thursday.   Rep& James Cotten of Weatherford 
insisted that a water development bill passed by the Texas House 
of Representatives was an effort by big cities like Dallas and Fort 
Worth to cover up places like Paradise, a Wise County hamlet 
of 250 people.   When the shouting ended, the bill passed, 114 
to 4, sending it to the Senate, where a similar proposal is being sponsored 
by Sen& George Parkhouse of Dallas.   Most of the fire 
was directed by Cotten against Dallas and Sen& Parkhouse. The 
bill would increase from $5,000,000 to $15,000,000 the maximum loan 
the state could make to a local water project.   Cotten construed 
this as a veiled effort by Parkhouse to help Dallas and other large 
cities get money which Cotten felt could better be spent providing 
water for rural Texas.   Statements by other legislators that 
Dallas is paying for all its water program by local bonds, and that less 
populous places would benefit most by the pending bill, did not sway 
Cotten's attack.   The bill's defenders were mostly small-town 
legislators like J& W& Buchanan of Dumas, Eligio (Kika) 
de la Garza of Mission, Sam F& Collins of Newton and Joe Chapman 
of Sulphur Springs.   "This is a poor boy's bill", 
said Chapman. "Dallas and Fort Worth can vote bonds. This would 
help the little peanut districts". 
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- A Houston teacher, now serving in the Legislature, 
proposed Thursday a law reducing the time spent learning "educational 
methods".   Rep& Henry C& Grover, who teaches 
history in the Houston public schools, would reduce from 24 to 12 semester 
hours the so-called "teaching methods" courses required to 
obtain a junior or senior high school teaching certificate. A normal 
year's work in college is 30 semester hours.   Grover also would 
require junior-senior high teachers to have at least 24 semester hours 
credit in the subject they are teaching. The remainder of the 4-year 
college requirement would be in general subjects.   "A person 
with a master's degree in physics, chemistry, math or English, 
yet who has not taken Education courses, is not permitted to teach in 
the public schools", said Grover.   College teachers in Texas 
are not required to have the Education courses.   Fifty-three 
of the 150 representatives immediately joined Grover as co-signers 
of the proposal. 
_PARIS, TEXAS (SP&)_- The board of regents of Paris Junior 
College has named Dr& Clarence Charles Clark of Hays, Kan& 
as the school's new president.   Dr& Clark will succeed Dr& 
J& R& McLemore, who will retire at the close of the present 
school term.   Dr& Clark holds an earned Doctor of Education 
degree from the University of Oklahoma. He also received a Master 
of Science degree from Texas ~A+~I College and a Bachelor 
of Science degree from Southwestern State College, Weatherford, 
Okla&.   In addition, Dr& Clark has studied at Rhode Island 
State College and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

During his college career, Dr& Clark was captain of his basketball 
team and was a football letterman.   Dr& Clark has served 
as teacher and principal in Oklahoma high schools, as teacher and 
athletic director at Raymondville, Texas, High School, as an instructor 
at the University of Oklahoma, and as an associate professor 
of education at Fort Hays, Kan&, State College. He has served 
as a border patrolman and was in the Signal Corps of the U&S& 
Army. 
_DENTON, TEXAS (SP&)_- Principals of the 13 schools in the Denton 
Independent School District have been re-elected for the 1961-62 
session upon the recommendation of Supt& Chester O& Strickland.

State and federal legislation against racial discrimination in 
employment was called for yesterday in a report of a "blue ribbon" 
citizens committee on the aid to dependent children program. 
The report, culminating a year long study of the ~ADC program in 
Cook county by a New York City welfare consulting firm, listed 10 
long range recommendations designed to reduce the soaring ~ADC 
case load. The report called racial discrimination in employment "one 
of the most serious causes of family breakdown, desertion, and ~ADC 
dependency". #"MUST SOLVE PROBLEM"#

The monthly cost 
of ~ADC to more than 100,000 recipients in the county is 4.4 million 
dollars, said C& Virgil Martin, president of Carson Pirie 
Scott + Co&, committee chairman.   "We must solve the problems 
which have forced these people to depend upon ~ADC for subsistence", 
Martin said.   The volume of ~ADC cases will decrease, 
Martin reported, when the community is able to deal effectively 
with two problems: Relatively limited skills and discrimination 
in employment because of color. These, he said, are "two of the principal 
underlying causes for family breakups leading to ~ADC". 

#CALLS FOR EXTENSION#

Other recommendations made by the committee 
are:   Extension of the ~ADC program to all children in 
need living with any relatives, including both parents, as a means of 
preserving family unity.   Research projects as soon as possible 
on the causes and prevention of dependency and illegitimacy.

Several defendants in the Summerdale police burglary trial made 
statements indicating their guilt at the time of their arrest, Judge 
James B& Parsons was told in Criminal court yesterday. 
The disclosure by Charles Bellows, chief defense counsel, startled 
observers and was viewed as the prelude to a quarrel between the six 
attorneys representing the eight former policemen now on trial.

Bellows made the disclosure when he asked Judge Parsons to grant 
his client, Alan Clements, 30, a separate trial. Bellows made the request 
while the all-woman jury was out of the courtroom. 

#FEARS PREJUDICIAL 
ASPECTS#

"The statements may be highly prejudicial to my 
client", Bellows told the court. "Some of the defendants strongly 
indicated they knew they were receiving stolen property. It is impossible 
to get a fair trial when some of the defendants made statements 
involving themselves and others".   Judge Parsons leaned over 
the bench and inquired, "You mean some of the defendants made statements 
admitting this"?   "Yes, your honor", replied 
Bellows. "What this amounts to, if true, is that there will be a free-for-all 
fight in this case. There is a conflict among the defendants". 
_WASHINGTON, JULY 24_- President Kennedy today pushed aside other 
White House business to devote all his time and attention to working 
on the Berlin crisis address he will deliver tomorrow night to the 
American people over nationwide television and radio.   The 
President spent much of the week-end at his summer home on Cape Cod 
writing the first drafts of portions of the address with the help of 
White House aids in Washington with whom he talked by telephone.

Shortly after the Chief Executive returned to Washington in midmorning 
from Hyannis Port, Mass&, a White House spokesman said 
the address text still had "quite a way to go" toward completion. 

#DECISIONS ARE MADE#

Asked to elaborate, Pierre Salinger, White 
House press secretary, replied, "I would say it's got to go 
thru several more drafts".   Salinger said the work President 
Kennedy, advisers, and members of his staff were doing on the address 
involved composition and wording, rather than last minute decisions 
on administration plans to meet the latest Berlin crisis precipitated 
by Russia's demands and proposals for the city.

The last 10 cases in the investigation of the Nov& 8 election 
were dismissed yesterday by Acting Judge John M& Karns, who 
charged that the prosecution obtained evidence "by unfair and fundamentally 
illegal means".   Karns said that the cases involved a 
matter "of even greater significance than the guilt or innocence" 
of the 50 persons. He said evidence was obtained "in violation of 
the legal rights of citizens".   Karns' ruling pertained to 
eight of the 10 cases. In the two other cases he ruled that the state 
had been "unable to make a case". Contempt proceedings originally 
had been brought against 677 persons in 133 precincts by Morris J& 
Wexler, special prosecutor. 

#ISSUE JURY SUBPENAS#

Wexler 
admitted in earlier court hearings that he issued grand jury subpenas 
to about 200 persons involved in the election investigation, questioned 
the individuals in the Criminal courts building, but did not take them 
before the grand jury.   Mayer Goldberg, attorney for election 
judges in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward, argued this procedure 
constituted intimidation. Wexler has denied repeatedly that coercion 
was used in questioning.   Karns said it was a "wrongful act" 
for Wexler to take statements "privately and outside of the grand 
jury room". He said this constituted a "very serious misuse" 
of the Criminal court processes.   "Actually, the abuse of the 
process may have constituted a contempt of the Criminal court of Cook 
county, altho vindication of the authority of that court is not the 
function of this court", said Karns, who is a City judge in East 
St& Louis sitting in Cook County court. 

#FACED SEVEN CASES# 

Karns had been scheduled this week to hear seven cases involving 35 
persons. Wexler had charged the precinct judges in these cases with 
"complementary" miscount of the vote, in which votes would be taken 
from one candidate and given to another.   The cases involved 
judges in the 33d, 24th, and 42d precincts of the 31st ward, the 21st 
and 28th precincts of the 29th ward, the 18th precinct of the 4th ward, 
and the 9th precinct of the 23d ward.   The case of the judges 
in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward had been heard previously and taken 
under advisement by Karns. Two other cases also were under advisement. 

#CLAIMS PRECEDENT LACKING#

After reading his statement discharging 
the 23d ward case, Karns told Wexler that if the seven cases 
scheduled for trial also involved persons who had been subpenaed, he 
would dismiss them. 
_WASHINGTON, FEB& 9_- President Kennedy today proposed a mammoth 
new medical care program whereby social security taxes on 70 million 
American workers would be raised to pay the hospital and some other 
medical bills of 14.2 million Americans over 65 who are covered by 
social security or railroad retirement programs.   The President, 
in a special message to Congress, tied in with his aged care plan 
requests for large federal grants to finance medical and dental scholarships, 
build 20 new medical and 20 new dental schools, and expand child 
health care and general medical research.   The aged care plan, 
similar to one the President sponsored last year as a senator, a 
fight on Capitol hill. It was defeated in Congress last year. 

#COST 
UP TO $37 A YEAR#

It would be financed by boosting the social security 
payroll tax by as much as $37 a year for each of the workers now 
paying such taxes.   The social security payroll tax is now 6 
per cent- 3 per cent on each worker and employer- on the first $4,800 
of pay per year. The Kennedy plan alone would boost the base to 
$5,000 a year and the payroll tax to 6.5 per cent- 3.25 per cent each. 
Similar payroll tax boosts would be imposed on those under the railroad 
retirement system.   The payroll tax would actually rise 
to 7.5 per cent starting Jan& 1, 1963, if the plan is approved, because 
the levy is already scheduled to go up by 1 per cent on that date 
to pay for other social security costs. 

#OUTLAYS WOULD INCREASE# 

Officials estimated the annual tax boost for the medical plan would 
amount to 1.5 billion dollars and that medical benefits paid out would 
run 1 billion or more in the first year, 1963. Both figures would go 
higher in later years.   Other parts of the Kennedy health plan 
would entail federal grants of 750 million to 1 billion dollars over 
the next 10 years. These would be paid for out of general, not payroll, 
taxes. 

#NURSING HOME CARE#

The aged care plan carries these 
benefits for persons over 65 who are under the social security and railroad 
retirement systems: _1._ Full payment of hospital bills for 
stays up to 90 days for each illness, except that the patient would 
pay $10 a day of the cost for the first nine days. _2._ Full payment 
of nursing home bills for up to 180 days following discharge from 
a hospital. A patient could receive up to 300 days paid-for nursing 
home care under a "unit formula" allowing more of such care for those 
who use none or only part of the hospital-care credit. _3._ Hospital 
outpatient clinic diagnostic service for all costs in excess 
of $20 a patient. _4._ Community visiting nurse services at home 
for up to 240 days an illness.   The President noted that Congress 
last year passed a law providing grants to states to help pay medical 
bills of the needy aged. 

#CALLS PROPOSAL MODEST#

He said his 
plan is designed to "meet the needs of those millions who have no wish 
to receive care at the taxpayers' expense, but who are nevertheless 
staggered by the drain on their savings- or those of their children- 
caused by an extended hospital stay".   "This is a very 
modest proposal cut to meet absolutely essential needs", he said, 
"and with sufficient 'deductible' requirements to discourage any 
malingering or unnecessary overcrowding of our hospitals.   "This 
is not a program of socialized medicine. It is a program of prepayment 
of health costs with absolute freedom of choice guaranteed. Every 
person will choose his own doctor and hospital". 

#WOULDN'T 
PAY DOCTORS#

The plan does not cover doctor bills. They would still 
be paid by the patient.   Apart from the aged care plan the President's 
most ambitious and costly proposals were for federal scholarships, 
and grants to build or enlarge medical and dental schools.

The President said the nation's 92 medical and 47 dental schools 
cannot now handle the student load needed to meet the rising need 
for health care. Moreover, he said, many qualified young people are 
not going into medicine and dentistry because they can't afford the 
schooling costs. 

#CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCHOOLS#

The scholarship plan 
would 
provide federal contributions to each medical and dental school equal 
to $1,500 a year for one-fourth of the first year students. The 
schools could use the money to pay 4-year scholarships, based on need, 
of up to $2,000 a year per student.   In addition, the government 
would pay a $1,000 "cost of education" grant to the schools for 
each $1,500 in scholarship grants. Officials estimated the combined 
programs would cost 
5.1 million dollars the first year and would go up to 21 
millions by 1966.   The President recommended federal "matching 
grants" totaling 700 million dollars in 10 years for constructing 
new medical and dental schools or enlarging the capacity of existing 
ones. 

#MORE FOR NURSING HOMES#

In the area of "community health 
services", the President called for doubling the present 10 million 
dollar a year federal grants for nursing home construction. He asked 
for another 10 million dollar "initial" appropriation for "stimulatory 
grants" to states to improve nursing homes.   He further 
proposed grants of an unspecified sum for experimental hospitals.

In the child health field, the President said he will recommend 
later an increase in funds for programs under the children's bureau. 
He also asked Congress to approve establishment of a national 
child health institute. 

#ASKS RESEARCH FUNDS#

The President said 
he will ask Congress to increase grants to states for vocational rehabilitation. 
He did not say by how much.   For medical research 
he asked a 20 million dollar a year increase, from 30 to 50 millions, 
in matching grants for building research facilities. The President 
said he will also propose increasing, by an unspecified amount, the 540 
million dollars in the 1961-62 budget for direct government research 
in medicine.   The President said his proposals combine the "indispensable 
elements in a sound health program- people, knowledge, 
services, facilities, and the means to pay for them". 

#REACTION 
AS EXPECTED#

Congressional reaction to the message was along expected 
lines. Legislators who last year opposed placing aged-care under 
the social security system criticized the President's plan. Those 
who backed a similar plan last year hailed the message.   Senate 
Republican Leader Dirksen [Ill&] and House Republican Leader 
Charles Halleck [Ind&] said the message did not persuade them 
to change their opposition to compulsory medical insurance. Halleck 
said the voluntary care plan enacted last year should be given a fair 
trial first.   House Speaker Sam Rayburn [D&, Tex&] 
called the Kennedy program "a mighty fine thing", but made no prediction 
on its fate in the House. 
_WASHINGTON, FEB& 9_- Acting hastily under White House pressure, 
the Senate tonight confirmed Robert C& Weaver as the nation's 
federal housing chief.   Only 11 senators were on the floor 
and there was no record vote. A number of scattered "ayes" and 
"noes" was heard.   Customary Senate rules were ignored in 
order to speed approval of the Negro leader as administrator of the housing 
and home finance agency.   In the last eight years, all 
Presidential appointments, including those of cabinet rank, have been 
denied immediate action because of a Senate rule requiring at least 
a 24 hour delay after they are reported to the floor. 

#ENFORCE BY DEMAND# 

The rule was enforced by demand of Sen& Wayne Morse [D&, 
Ore&] in connection with President Eisenhower's cabinet 
selections in 1953 and President Kennedy's in 1961. 
_OSLO_ The most positive element to emerge from the Oslo meeting 
of North Atlantic Treaty Organization Foreign Ministers has been 
the freer, franker, and wider discussions, animated by much better mutual 
understanding than in past meetings.   This has been a working 
session of an organization that, by its very nature, can only proceed 
along its route step by step and without dramatic changes. In Oslo, 
the ministers have met in a climate of candor, and made a genuine 
attempt to get information and understanding one another's problems.

This atmosphere of understanding has been particularly noticeable 
where relations are concerned between the "colonialist" powers 
and those who have never, or not for a long time, had such problems. 
The nightmare of a clash between those in trouble in Africa, exacerbated 
by the difficulties, changes, and tragedies facing them, and other 
allies who intellectually and emotionally disapprove of the circumstances 
that have brought these troubles about, has been conspicious by 
its absence. 

#EXPLOSION AVOIDED#

In the case of Portugal, which 
a few weeks ago was rumored ready to walk out of the ~NATO Council 
should critics of its Angola policy prove harsh, there has been 
a noticeable relaxation of tension. The general, remarkably courteous, 
explanation has left basic positions unchanged, but there has been 
no explosion in the council. There should even be no more bitter surprises 
in the ~UN General Assembly as to ~NATO members' votes, 
since a new ad hoc ~NATO committee has been set up so that 
in the future such topics as Angola will be discussed in advance.

Canada alone has been somewhat out of step with the Oslo attempt 
to get all the allied cars back on the track behind the ~NATO 
locomotive. Even Norway, despite daily but limited manifestations against 
atomic arms in the heart of this northernmost capital of the alliance, 
is today closer to the ~NATO line.   On the negative 
side of the balance sheet must be set some disappointment that the 
United States leadership has not been as much in evidence as hoped for. 
One diplomat described the tenor of Secretary of State Dean Rusk's 
speeches as "inconclusive". But he hastened to add that, 
if United States policies were not always clear, despite Mr& Rusk's 
analysis of the various global danger points and setbacks for the 
West, this may merely mean the new administration has not yet firmly 
fixed its policy. 

#EXPLORATORY MOOD#

A certain vagueness may also 
be caused by tactical appreciation of the fact that the present council 
meeting is a semipublic affair, with no fewer than six Soviet correspondents 
accredited.   The impression has nevertheless been 
given during these three days, despite Mr& Rusk's personal popularity, 
that the United States delegation came to Oslo in a somewhat 
tentative and exploratory frame of mind, more ready to listen and learn 
than to enunciate firm policy on a global scale with detailed application 
to individual danger spots.   The Secretary of State 
himself, in his first speech, gave some idea of the tremendous march of 
events inside and outside the United States that has preoccupied the 
new administration in the past four months.   But where the core 
of ~NATO is concerned, the Secretary of State has not only 
reiterated the United States' profound attachment to the alliance, 
"cornerstone" of its foreign policy, but has announced that five 
nuclear submarines will eventually be at ~NATO's disposal in 
European waters.   The Secretary of State has also solemnly repeated 
a warning to the Soviet Union that the United States will 
not stand for another setback in Berlin, an affirmation once again taken 
up by the council as a whole. 

#CONFLICT SURVEYED#

The secretary's 
greatest achievement is perhaps the rekindling of ~NATO realization 
that East-West friction, wherever it take place around the 
globe, is in essence the general conflict between two entirely different 
societies, and must be treated as such without regard to geographical 
distance or lack of apparent connection.   The annual spring 
meeting has given an impetus in three main directions: more, deeper, 
and more timely political consultation within the alliance, the use 
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (when 
ratified) as a method of coordinating aid to the underdeveloped countries, 
and the need for strengthening conventional forces as well as the 
maintenance of the nuclear deterrent.   This increase in the 
"threshold", as the conventional forces strengthening is called, will 
prove one of the alliance's most difficult problems in the months 
to come. Each ally will have to carry out obligations long since laid 
down, but never completely fulfilled. 
_WASHINGTON_ The Kennedy administration moves haltingly toward a 
Geneva conference on Laos just as serious debate over its foreign policy 
erupts for the first time.   There is little optimism here 
that the Communists will be any more docile at the conference table 
than they were in military actions on the ground in Laos.   The 
United States, State Department officials explain, now is mainly 
interested in setting up an international inspection system which will 
prevent Laos from being used as a base for Communist attacks on neighboring 
Thailand and South Viet Nam.   They count on the aid 
of the neutral countries attending the Geneva conference to achieve 
this.   The United States hopes that any future Lao Cabinet 
would not become Communist dominated. But it is apparent that no acceptable 
formula has been found to prevent such a possibility. 

#POLICIES MODIFIED#

The inclination here is to accept a de facto cease-fire 
in Laos, rather than continue to insist on a verification of the 
cease-fire by the international control commission before participating 
in the Geneva conference.   This is another of the modifications 
of policy on Laos that the Kennedy administration has felt compelled 
to make. It excuses these actions as being the chain reaction to 
basic errors made in the previous administration.   Its spokesmen 
insist that there has not been time enough to institute reforms in 
military and economic aid policies in the critical areas.   But 
with the months moving on- and the immediate confrontations with the 
Communists showing no gain for the free world- the question arises:

How effective have Kennedy administration first foreign policy 
decisions been in dealing with Communist aggression?   Former 
Vice-President Richard M& Nixon in Detroit called for a 
firmer and tougher policy toward the Soviet Union. He was critical 
of what he feels is President Kennedy's tendency to be too conciliatory. 
 
#~GOP RESTRAINED#

It does not take a Gallup poll to 
find out that most Republicans in Congress feel this understates the 
situation as Republicans see it. They can hardly restrain themselves 
from raising the question of whether Republicans, if they had been 
in power, would have made "amateurish and monumental blunders" in 
Cuba.   One Republican senator told this correspondent that he 
was constantly being asked why he didn't attack the Kennedy administration 
on this score. His reply, he said, was that he agreed to the 
need for unity in the country now. But he further said that it was 
better politics to let others question the wisdom of administration policies 
first.   The Republicans some weeks ago served notice through 
Senator Thruston B& Morton (~R) of Kentucky, chairman 
of the Republican National Committee, that the Kennedy administration 
would be held responsible if the outcome in Laos was a coalition 
government susceptible of Communist domination.   Kennedy administration 
policies also have been assailed now from another direction 
by 70 Harvard, Boston University, Brandeis, and Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology educators. 

#DETENTE URGED#

This group pleads 
with the administration to "give no further support for the invasion 
of Cuba by exile groups". It recommends that the United States 
"seek instead to detach the Castro regime from the Communist bloc 
by working for a diplomatic detente and a resumption of trade relations; 
and concentrate its constructive efforts on eliminating in other 
parts of Latin America the social conditions on which totalitarian 
nationalism feeds".   Mr& Nixon, for his part, would oppose 
intervention in Cuba without specific provocation. But he did recommend 
that President Kennedy state clearly that if Communist countries 
shipped any further arms to Cuba that it would not be tolerated.

Until the Cuban fiasco and the Communist military victories 
in Laos, 
almost any observer would have said that President Kennedy had blended 
a program that respected, generally, the opinions voiced both by 
Mr& Nixon and the professors. 

#AID PLANS REVAMPED#

Very early 
in his administration he informed the Kremlin through diplomatic channels, 
a high official source disclosed, that the new administration 
would react even tougher than the Eisenhower administration would during 
the formative period of the administration.   Strenuous efforts 
were made to remove pin pricking from administration statements. Policies 
on nuclear test ban negotiations were reviewed and changed. But 
thus far there has been no response in kind.   Foreign aid programs 
were revamped to give greater emphasis to economic aid and to 
encourage political reform in recipient nations.   In Laos, the 
administration looked at the Eisenhower administration efforts to show 
determination by sailing a naval fleet into Southeast Asian waters 
as a useless gesture.   Again and again it asked the Communists 
to "freeze" the military situation in Laos. But the Communists 
aided the Pathet Lao at an even faster rate.   And after several 
correspondents went into Pathet Lao territory and exposed the 
huge build-up, 
administration spokesmen acclaimed them for performing a 
"great service" and laid the matter before the Southeast Asia Treaty 
Organization.   ~SEATO was steamed up and prepared 
contingency plans for coping with the military losses in Laos. But 
the Communists never gave sufficient provocation at any one time for 
the United States to want to risk a limited or an all-out war over Laos. 
(Some ~SEATO nations disagreed, however.)   There 
was the further complication that the administration had very early concluded 
that Laos was ill suited to be an ally, unlike its more determined 
neighbors, Thailand and South Viet Nam.   The administration 
declared itself in favor of a neutralized Laos. The pro-Western 
government, which the United States had helped in a revolt against 
the Souvanna Phouma "neutralist" government, never did appear 
to spark much fighting spirit in the Royal Lao Army.   There 
certainly was not any more energy displayed after it was clear the United 
States would not back the pro-Western government to the hilt.

If the administration ever had any ideas that it could find an 
acceptable alternative to Prince Souvanna Phouma, whom it felt was 
too trusting of Communists, it gradually had to relinquish them.

One factor was the statement of Senator J& W& Fulbright (~D) 
of Arkansas, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
He declared on March 25 that the United States had erred a 
year and a half ago by "encouraging the removal" of Prince Souvanna. 
_WASHINGTON_ The White House is taking extraordinary steps to check 
the rapid growth of juvenile delinquency in the United States.

The President is deeply concerned over this problem and its effect 
upon the "vitality of the nation".   In an important assertion 
of national leadership in this field, he has issued an executive 
order establishing the President's committee on Juvenile Delinquency 
and Crime, to be supported and assisted by a Citizens Advisory 
Council of recognized authorities on juvenile problems.   The 
President asks the support and cooperation of Congress in his efforts 
through the enactment of legislation to provide federal grants to 
states for specified efforts in combating this disturbing crime trend. 

#OFFENSES MULTIPLY#

The President has also called upon the Attorney 
General, the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, and 
the Secretary of Labor to coordinate their efforts "in the development 
of a program of federal leadership to assist states and local 
communities in their efforts to cope with the problem.   Simultaneously 
the President announced Thursday the appointment of David L& 
Hackett, a special assistant ot the Attorney General, as executive 
director of the new Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Youth 
Crime.   His sense of urgency in this matter stems from the 
fact that court cases ond juvenile arrests have more than doubled since 
1948, each year showing an increase in offenders.   Among arrests 
reported by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1959, about 
half for burglary and larceny involved persons under 18 years of age.

East Providence should organize its civil defense setup and begin 
by appointing a full-time director, Raymond H& Hawksley, the 
present city ~CD head, believes.   Mr& Hawksley said yesterday 
he would be willing to go before the city council "or anyone 
else locally" to outline his proposal at the earliest possible time.

East Providence now has no civil defense program. Mr& Hawksley, 
the state's general treasurer, has been a part-time ~CD 
director in the city for the last nine years. He is not interested in 
being named a full-time director.   Noting that President Kennedy 
has handed the Defense Department the major responsibility for 
the nation's civil defense program, Mr& Hawksley said the federal 
government would pay half the salary of a full-time local director.

He expressed the opinion the city could hire a ~CD director 
for about $3,500 a year and would only have to put up half that amount 
on 
a matching fund basis to defray the salary costs.   Mr& Hawksley 
said he believed there are a number of qualified city residents 
who would be willing to take the full-time ~CD job. One of these 
men is former Fire Chief John A& Laughlin, he said.   Along 
with a director, the city should provide a ~CD headquarters so 
that pertinent information about the local organization would be centralized. 
Mr& Hawksley said.   One advantage that would come to 
the city in having a full-time director, he said, is that East Providence 
would become eligible to apply to the federal government for financial 
aid in purchasing equipment needed for a sound civil defense 
program.   Matching funds also can be obtained for procurement of 
such items as radios, sirens and rescue trucks, he said.   Mr& 
Hawksley believes that East Providence could use two more rescue 
trucks, similar to the ~CD vehicle obtained several years ago and 
now detailed to the Central Fire Station.   He would assign 
one of the rescue trucks to the Riverside section of the city and the 
other to the Rumford area.   Speaking of the present status of 
civil defense in the city, Mr& Hawksley said he would be willing 
to bet that not more than one person in a hundred would know what to 
do or where to go in the event of an enemy attack.   The Narragansett 
Race Track grounds is one assembly point, he said, and a drive-in 
theater in Seekonk would be another. Riverside residents would 
go to the Seekonk assembly point.   Mr& Hawksley said he was 
not critical of city residents for not knowing what to do or where to 
assemble in case of an air attack.   Such vital information, he 
said, has to be made available to the public frequently and at regular 
intervals for residents to know.   If the city council fails to 
consider appointment of a full-time ~CD director, Mr& Hawksley 
said, then he plans to call a meeting early in September so that a 
civil defense organization will be developed locally.   One of 
the first things he would do, he said, would be to organize classes in 
first aid. Other steps would be developed after information drifts down 
to the local level from the federal government.

Rhode Island is going to examine its Sunday sales law with possible 
revisions in mind.   Governor Notte said last night he 
plans to name a committee to make the study and come up with recommendations 
for possible changes in time for the next session of the General 
Assembly.   The governor's move into the so-called "blue 
law" controversy came in the form of a letter to Miss Mary R& 
Grant, deputy city clerk of Central Falls. A copy was released to 
the press.   Mr& Notte was responding to a resolution adopted 
by the Central Falls City Council on July 10 and sent to the state 
house by Miss Grant. The resolution urges the governor to have a 
complete study of the Sunday sales laws made with an eye to their revision 
at the next session of the legislature.   While the city 
council suggested that the Legislative Council might perform the review, 
Mr& Notte said that instead he will take up the matter with Atty& 
Gen& J& Joseph Nugent to get "the benefit of his views". 
He will then appoint the study committee with Mr& Nugent's 
cooperation, the governor said.   "I would expect the proposed 
committee to hold public hearings", Mr& Notte said, "to obtain 
the views of the general public and religious, labor and special-interest 
groups affected by these laws".   The governor wrote 
Miss Grant that he has been concerned for some time "with the continuous 
problem which confronts our local and state law enforcement officers 
as a result of the laws regulating Sunday sales".   The 
attorney general has advised local police that it is their duty to enforce 
the blue laws. Should there be evidence they are shirking, he has 
said, the state police will step into the situation.   There 
has been more activity across the state line in Massachusetts than in 
Rhode Island in recent weeks toward enforcement of the Sunday sales 
laws. The statutes, similar in both the Bay State and Rhode Island 
and dating back in some instances to colonial times, severely limit 
the types of merchandise that may be sold on the Sabbath.   The 
Central Falls City Council expressed concern especially that more 
foods be placed on the eligible list and that neighborhood grocery 
and variety stores be allowed to do business on Sunday.   The only 
day they "have a chance to compete with large supermarkets is on 
Sunday", the council's resolution said. The small shops "must 
be retained, for they provide essential service to the community", 
according to the resolution, which added that they "also are the source 
of livelihood for thousands of our neighbors". It declares that 
Sunday sales licenses provide "great revenue" to the local government.

The council advised the governor that "large supermarkets, 
factory outlets and department stores not be allowed to do business" 
on Sunday. They "operate on a volume basis", it was contended, 
"and are not essential to provide the more limited but vital 
shopping needs of the community".

Liberals and conservatives in both parties- Democratic and 
Republican- should divorce themselves and form two independent parties, 
George H& Reama, nationally known labor-management expert, said 
here yesterday.   Mr& Reama told the Rotary Club of Providence 
at its luncheon at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel that about 
half of the people in the country want the "welfare" type of government 
and the other half want a free enterprise system. He suggested 
that a regrouping of forces might allow the average voter a better pull 
at the right lever for him on election day.   He said he was "confessing 
that I was a member of the Socialist Party in 1910". 
That, he added, was when he was "a very young man, a machinist and 
toolmaker by trade.   "That was before I studied law. Some 
of my fellow workers were grooming me for an office in the Socialist 
Party. The lawyer with whom I studied law steered me off the Socialist 
track. He steered me to the right track- the free enterprise track".

He said that when he was a Socialist in 1910, the party 
called for government operation of all utilities and the pooling of 
all resources. He suggested that without the Socialist Party ever 
gaining a national victory, most of its original program has come to 
pass under both major parties.   Mr& Reama, who retired as vice 
president of the American Screw Co& in 1955 said, "Both parties 
in the last election told us that we need a five per cent growth 
in the gross national product- but neither told us how to achieve it".

He said he favors wage increases for workers- "but manufacturers 
are caught in a profit squeeze"- and raises should only 
come when the public is conditioned to higher prices, he added.

Indicating the way in which he has turned his back on his 1910 philosophy, 
Mr& Reama said: "A Socialist is a person who believes 
in dividing everything he does not own". Mr& Reama, far from 
really being retired, is engaged in industrial relations counseling.

A petition bearing the signatures of more than 1,700 Johnston 
taxpayers was presented to the town council last night as what is hoped 
will be the first step in obtaining a home rule charter for the town.

William A& Martinelli, chairman of the Citizens Group 
of Johnston, transferred the petitions from his left hand to his right 
hand after the council voted to accept them at the suggestion of Council 
President Raymond Fortin Sr&.   The law which governs 
home rule charter petitions states that they must be referred to the 
chairman of the board of canvassers for verification of the signatures 
within 10 days and Mr& Martinelli happens to hold that post.

Mr& Martinelli explained that there should be more than enough 
signatures to assure the scheduling of a vote on the home rule charter 
and possible election of a nine member charter commission within 70 
days. He explained that by law the council must establish procedures 
for a vote on the issue within 60 days after the board of canvassers 
completes its work.   A difference of opinion arose between Mr& 
Martinelli and John P& Bourcier, town solicitor, over the exact 
manner in which the vote is handled. Mr& Martinelli has, in recent 
weeks, been of the opinion that a special town meeting would be called 
for the vote, while Mr& Bourcier said that a special election 
might be called instead.   Mr& Bourcier said that he had consulted 
several Superior Court justices in the last week and received 
opinions favoring both procedures. He assured Mr& Martinelli and 
the council that he would study the correct method and report back to 
the council as soon as possible.   Mr& Martinelli said yesterday 
that the Citizens Group of Johnston will meet again July 24 to 
plan further strategy in the charter movement. He said that the group 
has no candidates for the charter commission in mind at present, but 
that it will undoubtedly endorse candidates when the time comes.

"After inspiring this, I think we should certainly follow through 
on it", he declared. "It has become our responsibility and I 
hope that the Citizens Group will spearhead the movement". 
He said he would not be surprised if some of the more than 30 members 
of the group are interested in running on the required non-partisan 
ballot for posts on the charter commission.   "Our most immediate 
goal is to increase public awareness of the movement", he indicated, 
"and to tell them what this will mean for the town". He expects 
that if the present timetable is followed a vote will be scheduled 
during the last week in September.   Some opposition to the home 
rule movement started to be heard yesterday, with spokesmen for the 
town's insurgent Democratic leadership speaking out against the home 
rule charter in favor of the model municipal league charter. 
Increasing opposition can be expected in coming weeks, it was indicated.

Misunderstanding of the real meaning of a home rule charter 
was cited as a factor which has caused the Citizens Group to obtain 
signatures under what were termed "false pretenses". Several signers 
affixed their names, it was learned, after being told that no tax 
increase would be possible without consent of the General Assembly 
and that a provision could be included in the charter to have the town 
take over the Johnston Sanitary District sewer system.

Action on a new ordinance permitting motorists who plead guilty 
to minor traffic offenses to pay fines at the local police station may 
be taken at Monday's special North Providence Town Council meeting.

Council president Frank SanAntonio said yesterday 
he may ask the council to formally request Town Solicitor Michael A& 
Abatuno to draft the ordinance.   At the last session of the 
General Assembly, the town was authorized to adopt such an ordinance 
as a means of making enforcement of minor offenses more effective. 
Nothing has been done yet to take advantage of the enabling legislation.

At present all offenses must be taken to Sixth District 
Court for disposition. Local police have hesitated to prosecute them 
because of the heavy court costs involved even for the simplest offense. 

_PLAINFIELD_- James P& Mitchell and Sen& Walter H& Jones 
~R-Bergen, last night disagreed on the value of using as a campaign 
issue a remark by Richard J& Hughes, Democratic gubernatorial 
candidate, that the ~GOP is "Campaigning on the carcass 
of Eisenhower Republicanism".   Mitchell was for using it, Jones 
against, and Sen& Wayne Dumont Jr& ~R-Warren did not 
mention it when the three Republican gubernatorial candidates spoke 
at staggered intervals before 100 persons at the Park Hotel. 
The controversial remark was first made Sunday by Hughes at a Westfield 
Young Democratic Club cocktail party at the Scotch Plains 
Country Club. It was greeted with a chorus of boos by 500 women in 
Trenton Monday at a forum of the State Federation of Women's Clubs.

Hughes said Monday, "It is the apparent intention of 
the Republican Party to campaign on the carcass of what they call Eisenhower 
Republicanism, but the heart stopped beating and the lifeblood 
congealed after Eisenhower retired. Now he's gone, the Republican 
Party is not going to be able to sell the tattered remains to the 
people of the state". Sunday he had added, "We can love Eisenhower 
the man, even if we considered him a mediocre president **h but 
there is nothing left of the Republican Party without his leadership".

Mitchell said the statement should become a major issue 
in the primary and the fall campaign. "How can a man with any degree 
of common decency charge this"? he asked. The former secretary 
of labor said he was proud to be an Eisenhower Republican "and proud 
to have absorbed his philosophy" while working in his adminstration.

Mitchell said the closeness of the outcome in last fall's 
Presidential election did not mean that Eisenhower Republicanism 
was a dead issue. 

#REGRETS ATTACK#

Jones said he regretted Hughes 
had made a personal attack on a past president. "He is wrong to 
inject Eisenhower into this campaign", he said, "because the primary 
is being waged on state issues and I will not be forced into re-arguing 
an old national campaign".   The audience last night did 
not respond with either applause or boos to mention of Hughes' remark.

Dumont spoke on the merit of having an open primary. He 
then launched into what the issues should be in the campaign. State 
aid to schools, the continuance of railroad passenger service, the proper 
uses of surplus funds of the Port of New York Authority, and 
making New Jersey attractive to new industry. 

#DECRIES JOBLESSNESS# 

Mitchell decried the high rate of unemployment in the state and said 
the Meyner administration and the Republican-controlled State Senate 
"Must share the blame for this". Nothing that Plainfield 
last year had lost the Mack Truck Co& plant, he said industry will 
not come into this state until there is tax reform.   "But 
I am not in favor of a sales or state income tax at this time", Mitchell 
said.   Jones, unhappy that the candidates were limited to 
eight minutes for a speech and no audience questions, saved his barbs 
for Mitchell. He said Mitchell is against the centralization of government 
in Washington but looks to the Kennedy Administration for 
aid to meet New Jersey school and transportation crises.   "He 
calls for help while saying he is against centralization, but you 
can't have it both ways", Jones said. The state is now faced with 
the immediate question of raising new taxes whether on utilities, real 
estate or motor vehicles, he said, "and I challenge Mitchell to 
tell the people where he stands on the tax issue". 

#DEFENDS IKE# 

Earlier, Mitchell said in a statement:   "I think that all 
Americans will resent deeply the statements made about President 
Eisenhower by Richard J& Hughes. His reference to 'discredited 
carcass' or 'tattered remains' of the president's leadership 
is an insult to the man who led our forces to victory in the greatest 
war in all history, to the man who was twice elected overwhelmingly by 
the American people as president of the United States, and who has 
been the symbol to the world of the peace-loving intentions of the 
free 
nations.   "I find it hard to understand how anyone seeking 
a position in public life could demonstrate such poor judgment and 
bad taste.   "Such a vicious statement can only have its origin 
in the desire of a new political candidate to try to make his name known 
by condemning a man of world stature. It can only rebound to Mr& 
Hughes' discredit". 

#SEES JONES AHEAD#

Sen& Charles W& 
Sandman, ~R-Cape May, said today Jones will run well ahead 
of his ~GOP opponents for the gubernatorial nomination. Sandman, 
state campaign chairman for Jones, was addressing a meeting in the 
Military Park Hotel, Newark, of Essex County leaders and campaign 
managers for Jones.   Sandman told the gathering that reports 
from workers on a local level all over the state indicate that Jones 
will be chosen the Republican Party's nominee with the largest majority 
given a candidate in recent years.   Sandman said: "The 
announcement that Sen& Clifford Case ~R-N&J&, has decided 
to spend all his available time campaigning for Mr& Mitchell 
is a dead giveaway. It is a desperate effort to prop up a sagging candidate 
who has proven he cannot answer any questions about New Jersey's 
problems.   "We have witnessed in this campaign the effort 
to project Mr& Mitchell as the image of a unity candidate from 
Washington. That failed.   "We are now witnessing an effort 
to transfer to Mr& Mitchell some of the glow of Sen& Case's 
candidacy of last year. That, too, will fail".   Sandman announced 
the appointment of Mrs& Harriet Copeland Greenfield of 330 
Woodland Ave&, Westfield, as state chairman of the Republican 
Women for Jones Committee.   Mrs& Greenfield is president 
of the Westfield Women's Republican Club and is a Westfield county 
committeewoman.

County Supervisor Weldon R& Sheets, who is a candidate for 
the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, today called for an end to 
paper ballots in those counties in the state which still use them. The 
proposal, Sheets said, represents part of his program for election 
reforms necessary to make democracy in New Jersey more than a "lip 
service word".   Sheets said that his proposed law would offer 
state financing aid for the purchase of voting machines, enabling 
counties to repay the loan over a 10-year period without interest or charge. 
Sheets added that he would ask for exclusive use of voting machines 
in the state by January, 1964.   Although he pointed out 
that mandatory legislation impinging on home rule is basically distasteful, 
he added that the vital interest in election results transcended 
county lines.

The candidacy of Mayor James J& Sheeran of West Orange, 
for the Republican nomination for sheriff 
of Essex County, was supported 
today by Edward W& Roos, West Orange public safety commissioner.

Sheeran, a lawyer and former ~FBI man is running 
against the Republican organization's candidate, Freeholder William 
MacDonald, for the vacancy left by the resignation of Neil Duffy, 
now a member of the State Board of Tax Appeals.   "My 
experience as public safety commissioner", Roos said, "has shown 
me that the office of sheriff is best filled by a man with law enforcement 
experience, and preferably one who is a lawyer. Jim Sheeran fits 
that description". 

_TRENTON_- William J& Seidel, state fire warden in the Department 
of Conservation and Economic Development, has retired after 
36 years of service.   A citation from Conservation Commissioner 
Salvatore A& Bontempo credits his supervision with a reduction 
in the number of forest fires in the state.   Seidel joined the 
department in 1925 as a division fire warden after graduation in 1921 
from the University of Michigan with a degree in forestry and employment 
with private lumber companies. In October 1944, he was appointed 
state warden and chief of the Forest Fire Section.   Under 
his supervision, the state fire-fighting agency developed such techniques 
as plowing of fire lines and established a fleet of tractor plows 
and tractor units for fire fighting.   He also expanded and modernized 
the radio system with a central control station. He introduced 
regular briefing sessions for district fire wardens and first aid training 
for section wardens. He is credited with setting up an annual 
co-operative fire prevention program in co-operation with the Red Cross 
and State Department of Education. 

_BOONTON_- Richard J& Hughes made his Morris County debut 
in his bid for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination here last night 
with a pledge "to carry the issues to every corner of the state".

He promised nearly 200 Democratic county committee members 
at the meeting in the Puddingstone Inn: "When I come back here 
after the November election you'll think, 'You're my man- 
you're the kind of governor we're glad we elected'".   He 
said, "We Democrats must resolve our issues on the test of what 
is right and just, and not what is expedient at the time". 

#ATTACKS 
REPUBLICANS#

In his only attack on the Republicans, Hughes said, 
"The three Republican candidates for governor are tripping over 
their feet for popular slogans to win the primary. But we'll have 
a liberal, well planned, forward looking, honest platform. We'll not 
talk out of one side of our mouth in Morris County and out of the 
other side in Hudson.   "We'll take the truth to the people, 
and the people will like the truth and elect their candidate and party 
in November".   He said, "You can see signs of the Republicans' 
feeble attack on the Meyner administration. But I shall 
campaign on the Meyner record to meet the needs of the years ahead".

He urged New Jersey to "become a full partner in the courageous 
actions of President Kennedy". He called for a greater 
attraction of industry and a stop to the piracy of industry by Southern 
states, and a strong fight against discrimination in business and 
industry.   "We must keep the bloodstream of New Jersey clean", 
the former Superior Court judge said. "To prevent hoodlums 
from infiltrating the state as they did in the Republican administration 
in the early 1940s".   Calling the Democrats the "party 
that lives, breathes and thinks for the good of the people", Hughes 
asked, "a representative Democratic vote in the primary for a springboard 
toward victory in November".   Hughes supported Gov& 
Meyner's "Green Acres" plan for saving large tracts of open 
land from the onrush of urban development. He said legislation for 
a $60 million bond issue to underwrite the program is expected to be 
introduced Monday. 

#CONSERVATION PLAN#

The plan will provide $45 
million for purchase of open land by the state. The other $15 million 
is to be alloted to municipalities on a matching fund basis. 
Hughes said, "This is not a plan to conquer space- but to conserve 
it", pointing out the state population has increased 125,000 each 
year since 1950. He said "Morris County is rapidly changing and 
unless steps are taken to preserve the green areas, there will be no 
land 
left to preserve".   Hughes would not comment on tax reforms 
or other issues in which the Republican candidates are involved. He 
said no matter what stand he takes it would be misconstrued that he 
was sympathetic to one or the other of the Republicans. "After the 
primary", he promised, "I'll be explicit on where I stand to 
bring you a strong, dynamic administration. I'm not afraid to tangle 
with the Republican nominee". 

_TRENTON_- Fifteen members of the Republican State Committee 
who are retiring- voluntarily- this year were honored yesterday by 
their colleagues.   The outgoing members, whose four-year terms 
will expire a week after the April 18 primary election, received carved 
wooden elephants, complete with ivory tusks, to remember the state 
committee by.   There may be other 1961 state committee retirements 
come April 18, but they will be leaving by choice of the Republican 
voters.   A special presentation was made to Mrs& Geraldine 
Thompson of Red Bank, who is stepping down after 35 years on 
the committee. She also was the original ~GOP national committeewoman 
from New Jersey in the early 1920s following adoption of the women's 
suffrage amendment. She served one four-year term on the national 
committee.

Resentment welled up yesterday among Democratic district leaders 
and some county leaders at reports that Mayor Wagner had decided 
to seek a third term with Paul R& Screvane and Abraham D& Beame 
as running mates.   At the same time reaction among anti-organization 
Democratic leaders and in the Liberal party to the Mayor's 
reported plan was generally favorable.   Some anti-organization 
Democrats saw in the program an opportunity to end the bitter internal 
fight within the Democratic party that has been going on for the 
last three years.   The resentment among Democratic organization 
leaders to the reported Wagner plan was directed particularly at 
the Mayor's efforts to name his own running mates without consulting 
the leaders. Some viewed this attempt as evidence that Mr& Wagner 
regarded himself as bigger than the party. 

#OPPOSITION REPORTED# 

Some Democratic district and county leaders are reported trying to 
induce State Controller Arthur Levitt of Brooklyn to oppose Mr& 
Wagner for the Mayoral nomination in the Sept& 7 Democratic 
primary.   These contend there is a serious question as to whether 
Mr& Wagner has the confidence of the Democratic rank and file 
in the city. Their view is that last-minute changes the Mayor is proposing 
to make in the Democratic ticket only emphasize the weakness of 
his performance as Mayor.   In an apparent effort to head off 
such a rival primary slate, Mr& Wagner talked by telephone yesterday 
with Representative Charles A& Buckley, the Bronx Democratic 
leader, and with Joseph T& Sharkey, the Brooklyn Democratic 
leader. 

#MAYOR VISITS BUCKLEY#

As usual, he made no attempt to get 
in touch with Carmine G& De Sapio, the Manhattan leader. He 
is publicly on record as believing Mr& De Sapio should be replaced 
for the good of the party.   Last night the Mayor visited Mr& 
Buckley at the Bronx leader's home for a discussion of the situation. 
Apparently he believes Mr& Buckley holds the key to the Democratic 
organization's acceptance of his choices for running mates 
without a struggle.   In talks with Mr& Buckley last week 
in Washington, the Mayor apparently received the Bronx leader's assent 
to dropping Controller Lawrence E& Gerosa, who lives in the 
Bronx, from this year's ticket. But Mr& Buckley seems to have 
assumed he would be given the right to pick Mr& Gerosa's successor. 

#SCREVANE AND BEAME HAILED#

The Mayor declined in two interviews 
with reporters yesterday to confirm or deny the reports that he 
had decided to run and wanted Mr& Screvane, who lives in Queens, 
to replace Abe Stark, the incumbent, as the candidate for President 
of the City Council and Mr& Beame, who lives in Brooklyn, to 
replace Mr& Gerosa as the candidate for Controller.   The 
Mayor spoke yesterday at the United Irish Counties Feis on the Hunter 
College Campus in the Bronx. After his speech, reporters asked 
him about the report of his political intentions, published in yesterday's 
New York Times. The Mayor said:   "It didn't 
come from me. But as I have said before, if I announce my candidacy, 
I will have something definite to say about running mates". 

_BOSTON, JUNE 16_- A wave of public resentment against corruption 
in government is rising in Massachusetts.   There is a tangible 
feeling in the air of revulsion toward politics. The taxi driver 
taking the visitor from the airport remarks that politicians in the state 
are "all the same".   "It's 'See Joe, see Jim'", 
he says. "The hand is out".   A political scientist writes 
of the growth of "alienated voters", who "believe that voting 
is useless because politicians or those who influence politicians are 
corrupt, selfish and beyond popular control. **h These voters view the 
political process as a secret conspiracy, the object of which is to 
plunder them".   Corruption is hardly a recent development in 
the city and state that were widely identified as the locale of Edwin 
O'Connor's novel, "The Last Hurrah". But there are reasons 
for the current spotlight on the subject.   A succession of 
highly publicized scandals has aroused the public within the last year. 
Graft in the construction of highways and other public works has brought 
on state and Federal investigations. And the election of President 
Kennedy has attracted new attention to the ethical climate of 
his home state.   A reader of the Boston newspapers can hardly 
escape the impression that petty chicanery, or worse, is the norm in 
Massachusetts 
public life. Day after day some new episode is reported.

The state Public Works Department is accused of having spent 
$8,555 to build a private beach for a state judge on his waterfront 
property. An assistant attorney general is directed to investigate. 

_WASHINGTON, JUNE 18_- Congress starts another week tomorrow with 
sharply contrasting forecasts for the two chambers.   In the 
Senate, several bills are expected to pass without any major conflict 
or opposition. In the House, the Southern-Republican coalition is 
expected to make another major stand in opposition to the Administration's 
housing bill, while more jockeying is expected in an attempt 
to advance the aid-to-education bill.   The housing bill is now 
in the House Rules Committee. It is expected to be reported out Tuesday, 
but this is a little uncertain.   The panel's action depends 
on the return of Representative James W& Trimble, Democrat 
of Arkansas, who has been siding with Speaker Sam Rayburn's forces 
in the Rules Committee in moving bills to the floor. Mr& Trimble 
has been in the hospital but is expected back Tuesday. 

#LEADERSHIP 
IS HOPEFUL#

The housing bill is expected to encounter strong 
opposition by the coalition of Southern Democrats and conservative 
Republicans. The Democratic leadership, however, hopes to pass it 
sometime this week.   The $6,100,000,000 measure, which was passed 
last Monday by the Senate, provides for forty-year mortgages at low 
down-payments for moderate-income families. It also provides for funds 
to clear slums and help colleges build dormitories.   The education 
bill appears to be temporarily stalled in the Rules Committee, 
where two Northern Democratic members who usually vote with the 
Administration are balking because of the religious controversy. They 
are James J& Delaney of Queens and Thomas P& O'Neill Jr& 
of Massachusetts. 

#THREE GROUPS TO MEET#

What could rescue 
the bill would be some quick progress on a bill amending the National 
Defense Education Act of 1958. This would provide for long-term 
Federal loans for construction of parochial and other private-school 
facilities for teaching science, languages and mathematics.

Mr& Delaney and Mr& O'Neill are not willing to vote on the 
public-school measure until the defense education bill clears the House 
Education and Labor Committee.

About half of all Peace Corps projects assigned to voluntary 
agencies will be carried out by religious groups, according to an official 
of the corps.   In the $40,000,000 budget that has been submitted 
for Congressional approval, $26,000,000 would be spent through 
universities and private voluntary agencies.   Twelve projects 
proposed by private groups are at the contract-negotiation stage, Gordon 
Boyce, director of relations with the voluntary agencies, said in 
a Washington interview. Six of these were proposed by religious groups. 
They will be for teaching, agriculture and community development 
in Southeast Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. 

#QUESTION RAISED#

Interviews with several church leaders have disclosed 
that this development has raised the question whether the Peace 
Corps will be able to prevent confusion for church and state over 
methods, means and goals.   There are a number of ways this could 
happen, the churchmen pointed out, and here is an example: 
Last month in Ghana an American missionary discovered when he came 
to pay his hotel bill that the usual rate had been doubled. When he protested, 
the hotel owner said:   "Why do you worry? The 
U& S& Government is paying for it. The U& S& Government 
pays for all its overseas workers". 

#MISSIONARY 
EXPLAINS#

"I don't work for the Government", the American 
said. "I'm a missionary".   The hotel owner shrugged. 
"Same thing", he said.   And then, some churchmen remarked, 
there is a more classical church-state problem:   Can religious 
agencies use Government funds and Peace Corps personnel in their 
projects and still preserve the constitutional requirement on separation 
of church and state?   R& Sargent Shriver Jr&, director 
of the corps, is certain that they can. No religious group, he 
declared in an interview, will receive Peace Corps funds unless it 
forswears all proselytizing on the project it proposes. 

_MOSCOW, JUNE 18_- At a gay party in the Kremlin for President 
Sukarno of Indonesia, Premier Khrushchev pulled out his pockets 
and said, beaming: "Look, he took everything I had"! 
Mr& Khrushchev was jesting in the expansive mood of the successful 
banker. Indonesia is one of the twenty under-developed countries of 
Asia, Africa and Latin America that are receiving Soviet aid.

The Soviet Union and other members of the Communist bloc are rapidly 
expanding their economic, technical and military assistance to 
the uncommitted nations.   The Communist countries allocated more 
than $1,000,000,000 in economic aid alone last year, according to Western 
estimates. This was the biggest annual outlay since the Communist 
program for the under-developed countries made its modest beginning 
in 1954. In 1960 more than 6,000 Communist technicians were present 
in those countries. 

_UNITED NATIONS, N& Y&, JUNE 18_- A committee of experts has 
recommended that a country's population be considered in the distribution 
of professional posts at the United Nations. This was disclosed 
today by a responsible source amid intensified efforts by the Soviet 
Union to gain a greater role in the staff and operation of the United 
Nations.   One effect of the proposal, which puts a premium 
on population instead of economic strength, as in the past, would 
be to take jobs from European nations and give more to such countries 
as India. India is the most populous United Nations member with more 
than 400,000,000 inhabitants.   The new formula for filling 
staff positions in the Secretariat is one of a number of recommendations 
made by a panel of eight in a long and detailed report. The report 
was completed after nearly eighteen months of work on the question of 
the organization of the United Nations. 

#FORMULA IS DUE THIS WEEK# 

The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
is expected to receive the report this week. The jobs formula is 
understood to follow these lines: _@_ Each of the organization's 
ninety-nine members would get two professional posts, such as 
political affairs officer, a department head or an economist, to start. 
#@#

Each member would get one post for each 10,000,000 people 
in its population up to 150,000,000 people or a maximum of fifteen posts. 
#@#

Each member with a population above 150,000,000 would 
get one additional post for each additional 30,000,000 people up to 
an unspecified cut-off point. 

_GENEVA, JUNE 18_- The three leaders of Laos agreed today to begin 
negotiations tomorrow on forming a coalition government that would 
unite the war-ridden kingdom.   The decision was made in Zurich 
by Prince Boun Oum, Premier of the pro-Western royal Government; 
Prince Souvanna Phouma, leader of the nation's neutralists 
and recognized as Premier by the Communist bloc, and Prince Souphanouvong, 
head of the pro-Communist Pathet Lao forces. The latter 
two are half-brothers.   Their 
joint statement was welcomed by the Western delegations who will attend 
tomorrow the nineteenth plenary session of the fourteen-nation conference 
on the future of Laos. An agreement among the Princes on a coalition 
government would ease their task, diplomats conceded. But no 
one was overly optimistic. 

#TACTICS STUDIED IN GENEVA#

W& Averell 
Harriman of the United States, Malcolm MacDonald of Britain, 
Maurice Couve de Murville, France's Foreign Minister, and Howard 
C& Green, Canada's Minister of External Affairs, concluded, 
meanwhile, a round of consultations here on future tactics in the 
conference. The pace of the talks has slowed with each passing week.

Princess Moune, Prince Souvanna Phouma's young daughter, 
read the Princes' statement. They had a two-hour luncheon together 
in "an atmosphere of cordial understanding and relaxation", she 
said.   The three Laotians agreed upon a six-point agenda for 
their talks, which are to last three days.   The Princess said 
it was too early to say what would be decided if no agreement was reached 
after three days. 

#TO DEAL WITH PRINCIPLES#

The meetings in 
Zurich, the statement said, would deal only with principles that would 
guide the three factors in their search for a coalition Government.

Appointment of William S& Pfaff Jr&, 41, as promotion 
manager 
of The Times-Picayune Publishing Company was announced Saturday 
by John F& Tims, president of the company.   Pfaff succeeds 
Martin Burke, who resigned.   The new promotion manager 
has been employed by the company since January, 1946, as a commercial 
artist in the advertising department.   He is a native of New 
Orleans and attended Allen Elementary school, Fortier High school 
and Soule business 
college.   From June, 1942, until December, 
1945, Pfaff served in the Army Air Corps. While in the service 
he attended radio school at Scott Field in Belleville, Ill&.

Before entering the service, Pfaff for five years did clerical 
work with a general merchandising and wholesale firm in New Orleans.

He is married to the former Audrey Knecht and has a daughter, 
Karol, 13. They reside at 4911 Miles dr&. 

_WASHINGTON_- Thousands of bleacher-type seats are being erected 
along Pennsylvania Avenue between the Capitol and the White House 
for the big inaugural parade on Jan& 20.   Assuming the 
weather is halfway decent that day, hundreds of thousands of persons 
will mass along this thoroughfare as President John F& Kennedy 
and retiring President Dwight D& Eisenhower leave Capitol Hill 
following the oath-taking ceremonies and ride down this historic ceremonial 
route.   Pennsylvania Avenue, named for one of the original 
13 states, perhaps is not the most impressive street in the District 
of Columbia from a commercial standpoint. But from a historic viewpoint 
none can approach it. 

#MANY BUILDINGS#

Within view of the 
avenue are some of the United States government's tremendous buildings, 
plus shrines and monuments. Of course, 1600 Pennsylvania, the 
White House, is the most famous address of the free world. 
Within an easy walk from Capitol Hill where Pennsylvania Avenue comes 
together with Constitution Avenue, begins a series of great federal 
buildings, some a block long and all about seven-stories high.

Great chapters of history have been recorded along the avenue, now 
about 169 years old. In the early spring of 1913 a few hundred thousand 
persons turned out to watch 5000 women parade. They were the suffragettes 
and they wanted to vote. In the 1920 presidential election 
they had that right and many of them did vote for the first time. 

#SEATS 
ON SQUARE#

Along this avenue which saw marching soldiers from 
the War Between the States returning in 1865 is the National Archives 
building where hundreds of thousands of this country's most valuable 
records are kept. Also the department of justice building is 
located where J& Edgar Hoover presides over the federal bureau of 
investigation.   Street car tracks run down the center of Pennsylvania, 
powered with lines that are underground.   Many spectators 
will be occupying seats and vantage points bordering Lafayette Square, 
opposite the White House. In this historic square are several 
statutes, but the one that stands out over the others is that of Gen& 
Andrew Jackson, hero of the Battle of New Orleans.   Moving 
past the presidential viewing stand and Lafayette Square will 
be at least 40 marching units. About 16,000 military members of all 
branches of the armed forces will take part in the parade.   Division 
one of the parade will be the service academies. Division two will 
include the representations of Massachusetts and Texas, the respective 
states of the President and of Vice-President L& B& Johnson. 
Then will come nine other states in the order of their admission 
to the union.   Division three will be headed by the Marines 
followed by 12 states; division four will be headed by the Navy, 
followed by 11 states; division five, by the Air Force followed 
by 
11 states. Division six will be headed by the Coast Guard, followed 
by the reserve forces of all services, five states, Puerto Rico, the 
Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the trust territories and 
the Canal Zone. 

_JACKSON, MISS&_- What does 1961 offer in political and governmental 
developments in Mississippi?   Even for those who have 
been observing the political scene a long time, no script from the past 
is worth very much in gazing into the state's immediate political 
future.   This is largely because of the unpredictability of the 
man who operates the helm of the state government and is the elected 
leader of its two million inhabitants- Gov& Ross Barnett.

Barnett, who came into office with no previous experience in public 
administration, has surrounded himself with confusion which not only 
keeps his foes guessing but his friends as well.   Consequently, 
it is uncertain after nearly 12 months in office just which direction 
the Barnett administration will take in the coming year. 

#COULD 
BE SCRAMBLE#

Some predict the administration will settle down during 
1961 and iron out the rough edges which it has had thus far. 
The builtin headache of the Barnett regime thus far has been the steady 
stream of job-seekers and others who feel they were given commitments 
by Barnett at some stage of his eight-year quest for the governor's 
office.   There are many who predict that should Barnett decide 
to call the Legislature back into special session, it will really 
throw his administration into a scramble.   Certainly nobody 
will predict that the next time the lawmakers come back together Barnett 
will be able to enjoy a re-enactment of the strange but successful 
"honeymoon" he had in the 1960 legislative session.   If Barnett 
doesn't call a special session in 1961, it will be the first 
year in the last decade that the Legislature has not met in regular or 
special session.   The odds favor a special session, more than 
likely early in the year. 

#DISTRICTS ISSUE#

Legislators always get 
restless for a special session (whether for the companionship or the 
$22.50 per diem is not certain) and if they start agitating. Barnett 
is not expected to be able to withstand the pressure.   The issue 
which may make it necessary to have a session is the highly sensitive 
problem of cutting the state's congressional districts from six 
to five to eliminate one congressional seat.   With eyes focused 
on the third congressional district, the historic Delta district, and 
Congressman Frank E& Smith as the one most likely to go, the redistricting 
battle will put to a test the longstanding power which lawmakers 
from the Delta have held in the Legislature.   Mississippi's 
relations with the national Democratic party will be at a crossroads 
during 1961, with the first Democratic president in eight years 
in the White House.   Split badly during the recent presidential 
election into almost equally divided camps of party loyalists and 
independents, the Democratic party in Mississippi is currently a wreck. 
And there has been no effort since the election to pull it back together. 

#FUTURE CLOUDED#

Barnett, as the titular head of the Democratic 
party, apparently must make the move to reestablish relations 
with the national Democratic party or see a movement come from the loyalist 
ranks to completely bypass him as a party functionary. 
With a Democratic administration, party patronage would normally begin 
to flow to Mississippi if it had held its Democratic solidarity 
in the November election.   Now, the picture is clouded, and even 
~US Sens& James O& Eastland and John C& Stennis, who 
remained loyal to the ticket, are uncertain of their status. 
Reports are that it is more than probability that the four congressmen 
from Mississippi who did not support the party ticket will be stripped 
of the usual patronage which flows to congressmen. 

_BATON ROUGE, LA&_- The Gov& Jimmie H& Davis administration 
appears to face a difficult year in 1961, with the governor's 
theme of peace and harmony subjected to severe stresses.   The 
year will probably start out with segregation still the most troublesome 
issue. But it might give way shortly to another vexing issue- 
that of finances in state government.   The transition from segregation 
to finances might already be in progress, in the form of an administration 
proposal to hike the state sales tax from 2 per cent to 3 
per cent.   The administration has said the sales tax proposal 
is merely part of the segregation strategy, since the revenues from the 
increase would be dedicated to a grant in aid program.   But the 
tardiness of the administration in making the dedication has caused 
legislators to suspect the tax bill was related more directly to an over-all 
shortage of cash than to segregation. 

#LEGISLATORS WEARY# 

Indeed, the administration's curious position on the sales tax was 
a major factor in contributing to its defeat. The administration could 
not say why $28 million was needed for a grant-in-aid program.

The effectiveness of the governor in clearing up some of the inconsistencies 
revolving about the sales tax bill may play a part in determining 
whether it can muster the required two-thirds vote.   The 
tax bill will be up for reconsideration Wednesday in the House when 
the Legislature reconvenes.   Davis may use the tax bill as a 
means to effect a transition from special sessions of the Legislature 
to normalcy.   If it fails to pass, he can throw up his hands and 
say the Legislature would not support him in his efforts to prevent 
integration. He could terminate special sessions of the Legislature.

Actually, 
Davis would have to toss in the towel soon anyway. 
Many legislators are already weary and frustrated over the so-far losing 
battle to block token integration.   This is not the sort 
of thing most politicos would care to acknowledge publicly. They would 
like to convey the notion something is being done, even though it is 
something they know to be ineffectual. 

#UNDERLYING CONCERN#

Passage 
of the sales tax measure would also give Davis the means to effect 
a transition. He could tell the Legislature they had provided the 
needed funds to carry on the battle.   Then he could tell them to 
go home, while the administration continued to wage the battle with 
the $28 million in extra revenues the sales tax measure would bring in 
over an eight months period.   It is difficult to be certain how 
the administration views that $28 million, since the views of one leader 
may not be the same as the views of another one.   But if 
the administration should find it does not need the $28 million for a 
grant-in-aid program, a not unlikely conclusion, it could very well seek 
a way to use the money for other purposes.   This would be in 
perfect consonance with the underlying concern in the administration- 
the shortage of cash. It could become an acute problem in the coming 
fiscal year.   If the administration does not succeed in passing 
the sales tax bill, or any other tax bill, it could very well be 
faced this spring at the fiscal session of the Legislature with an interesting 
dilemma.   Since the constitution forbids introduction 
of a tax bill at a fiscal session, the administration will either have 
to cut down expenses or inflate its estimates of anticipated revenues. 

#CONSTANT PROBLEM#

In either case, it could call a special session 
of the Legislature later in 1961 to make another stab at raising 
additional revenues through a tax raiser.   The prospect of cutting 
back spending is an unpleasant one for any governor. It is one 
that most try to avoid, as long as they can see an alternative approach 
to the problem.   But if all alternatives should be clearly 
blocked 
off, it can be expected the Davis administration will take steps 
to trim spending at the spring session of the state Legislature.

This might be done to arouse those who have been squeezed out by 
the trims to exert pressure on the Legislature, so it would be more 
receptive to a tax proposal later in the year.   A constant problem 
confronting Davis on any proposals for new taxes will be the charge 
by his foes that he has not tried to economize.   Any tax bill 
also will revive allegations that some of his followers have been using 
their administration affiliations imprudently to profit themselves.

The new year might see some house-cleaning, either genuine or 
token, depending upon developments, to give Davis an opportunity to 
combat some of these criticisms.

City Controller Alexander Hemphill charged Tuesday that the 
bids on the Frankford Elevated repair project were rigged to the advantage 
of a private contracting company which had "an inside track" 
with the city.   Estimates of the city's loss in the $344,000 
job have ranged as high as $200,000. 

#'SHORTCUTS' UNNOTICED# 

Hemphill said that the Hughes Steel Erection Co& contracted to 
do the work at an impossibly low cost with a bid that was far less than 
the "legitimate" bids of competing contractors.   The Hughes 
concern then took "shortcuts" on the project but got paid anyway, 
Hemphill said.   The Controller's charge of rigging was 
the latest development in an investigation which also brought these 
disclosures Tuesday:   {The city has sued for the full amount 
of the $172,400 performance bond covering the contract.   The 
Philadelphia Transportation Co& is investigating the part its 
organization played in reviewing the project.   The signature of 
Harold V& Varani, former director of architecture and engineering 
in the Department of Public Property, appeared on payment vouchers 
certifying work on the project. Varani has been fired on charges of 
accepting gifts from the contractor.   Managing Director Donald 
C& Wagner has agreed to cooperate fully with Hemphill after a 
period of sharp disagreement on the matter}.   The announcement 
that the city would sue for recovery on the performance bond was made 
by City Solicitor David Berger at a press conference following 
a meeting in the morning with Wagner and other officials of the city 
and the ~PTC as well as representatives of an engineering firm that 
was pulled off the El project before its completion in 1959. 

#CONCERN 
BANKRUPT#

The Hughes company and the Consolidated Industries, 
Inc&, both of 3646 N& 2d st&, filed for reorganization under 
the Federal bankruptcy law. On Monday, the Hughes concern was formally 
declared bankrupt after its directors indicated they could not 
draw up a plan for reorganization.   Business relations between 
the companies and city have been under investigation by Hemphill and 
District Attorney James C& Crumlish, Jr&. 

#INTERVENES IN 
CASE#

The suit was filed later in the day in Common Pleas Court 
7 against the Hughes company and two bonding firms. Travelers Indemnity 
Co& and the Continental Casualty Co&.   At Berger's 
direction, the city also intervened in the Hughes bankruptcy case 
in U& S& District Court in a move preliminary to filing a claim 
there.   "I am taking the position that the contract was clearly 
violated", Berger said.   The contract violations mostly 
involve failure to perform rehabilitation work on expansion joints along 
the El track. The contract called for overhauling of 102 joints. 
The city paid for work on 75, of which no more than 21 were repaired, 
Hemphill charged. 

#WIDE RANGE IN BIDS#

Hemphill said the Hughes 
concern contracted to do the repairs at a cost of $500 for each 
joint. The bid from A& Belanger and Sons of Cambridge, Mass&, 
which listed the same officers as Hughes, was $600 per joint.

But, Hemphill added, bids from other contractors ranged from $2400 
to $3100 per joint.   Berger's decision to sue for the full 
amount of the performance bond was questioned by Wagner in the morning 
press conference. Wagner said the city paid only $37,500 to the Hughes 
company. "We won't know the full amount until we get a full 
report", Wagner said.   "We can claim on the maximum amount 
of the bond", Berger said.   Wagner replied, "Can't you 
just see the headline: 'City Hooked for $172,000'"? #'KNOW 
ENOUGH TO SUE'#

Berger insisted that "we know enough to 
sue for the full amount".   Douglas M& Pratt, president of 
the ~PTC, who attended the meeting, said the transit company is 
reviewing the work on the El.   "We want to find out who knew 
about it", Pratt said. "Certain people must have known about it".

"The ~PTC is investigating the whole matter", Pratt 
said.

Samuel D& Goodis, representing the Philadelphia Hotel Association, 
objected on Tuesday to a proposed boost by the city in licensing 
fees, saying that occupancy rates in major hotels here ranged 
from 48 to 74 percent last year.   Goodis voiced his objection before 
City Council's Finance Committee.   For hotels with 
1000 rooms, the increased license fee would mean an expense of $5000 
a year, Goodis said. 

#TESTIFIES AT HEARING#

His testimony came 
during a hearing on a bill raising fees for a wide variety of licenses, 
permits and city services. The new fees are expected to raise an additional 
$740,000 in the remainder of 1961 and $2,330,000 more a year 
after that.   The ordinance would increase the fee for rooming 
houses, hotels and multi-family dwellings to $5 a room. The cost of a 
license now is $2, with an annual renewal fee of $1.   Goodis said 
that single rooms account for 95 percent of the accomodations in some 
hotels. 

#REVENUE ESTIMATED#

The city expects the higher rooming 
house, hotel and apartment house fees to bring in an additional $457,000 
a year.   The increase also was opposed by Leonard Kaplan, 
spokesman for the Home Builders Association of Philadelphia, on 
behalf of association members who operate apartment houses.   A 
proposal to raise dog license fees drew an objection from Councilwoman 
Virginia Knauer, who formerly raised pedigreed dogs. The ordinance 
would increase fees from $1 for males and $2 for females to a flat 
$5 a dog. 

#COMMISSIONER REPLIES#

Mrs& Knauer said she did not 
think dog owners should be penalized for the city's services to animal 
care.   In reply, Deputy Police Commissioner Howard R& 
Leary said that the city spends more than $115,000 annually to license 
and regulate dogs but collects only $43,000 in fees.   He reported 
that the city's contributions for animal care included $67,000 
to the Women's S&P&C&A&; $15,000 to pay six policemen 
assigned as dog catchers and $15,000 to investigate dog bites. 

#BACKS 
HIGHER FEES#

City Finance Director Richard J& McConnell 
indorsed the higher fees, which, he said, had been under study for more 
than a year. The city is not adequately compensated for the services 
covered by the fees, he said.   The new fee schedule also was 
supported by Commissioner of Licenses and Inspections Barnet Lieberman 
and Health Commissioner Eugene A& Gillis.

Petitions asking for a jail term for Norristown attorney Julian 
W& Barnard will be presented to the Montgomery County Court 
Friday, it was disclosed Tuesday by Horace A& Davenport, counsel 
for the widow of the man killed last Nov& 1 by Barnard's hit-run 
car.   The petitions will be presented in open court to President 
Judge William F& Dannehower, Davenport said.   Barnard, 
who pleaded no defense to manslaughter and hit-run charges, was 
fined $500 by Judge Warren K& Hess, and placed on two years' probation 
providing he does not drive during that time. He was caught 
driving the day after the sentence was pronounced and given a warning.

Victim of the accident was Robert Lee Stansbery, 39. His 
widow started the circulation of petitions after Barnard was reprimanded 
for violating the probation.

The City Planning Commission on Tuesday approved agreements 
between two redevelopers and the Redevelopment Authority for the purchase 
of land in the $300,000,000 Eastwick Redevelopment Area project.

The commission also approved a novel plan that would eliminate 
traffic hazards for pedestrians in the project.   One of 
the agreements calls for the New Eastwick Corp& to purchase a 1311 
acre tract for $12,192,865. The tract is bounded by Island ave&, 
Dicks ave&, 61st st&, and Eastwick ave&. 

#FOUR PARKS PLANNED# 

It is designated as Stage 1 Residential on the Redevelopment 
Authority's master plan and will feature row houses, garden apartments, 
four small parks, schools, churches, a shopping center and several 
small clusters of stores.   The corporation was formed by the 
Reynolds Metal Co& and the Samuel A& and Henry A& Berger 
firm, a Philadelphia builder, for work in the project.   The second 
agreement permits the authority to sell a 520-acre tract west of 
Stage 1 Residential to Philadelphia Builders Eastwick Corp&, 
a firm composed of 10 Philadelphia area builders, which is interested 
in developing part of the project. 

#WOULD BAR VEHICLES#

The plan 
for eliminating traffic hazards for pedestrians was developed by Dr& 
Constantinos A& Doxiadis, former Minister of Reconstruction 
in Greece and a consulting planner for the New Eastwick Corp&.

The plan calls for dividing the project into 16 sectors which would 
be barred to vehicular traffic. It provides for a series of landscaped 
walkways and a central esplanade that would eventually run through 
the center of the entire two-and-a-half-mile length of the project.

The esplanade eliminates Grovers ave&, which on original 
plans ran through the center of the development. The esplanade would 
feature pedestrian bridges over roads in the project. 

_KANSAS CITY, MO&, FEB& 9 (~UPI)_- The president of the 
Kansas City local of the International Association of Fire Fighters 
was severly injured today when a bomb tore his car apart as he left 
home for work.   Battalion Chief Stanton M& Gladden, 42, 
the central figure in a representation dispute between the fire fighters 
association and the teamsters union, suffered multiple fractures 
of both ankles. He was in Baptist Memorial hospital. 

#IGNITION SETS 
OFF BLAST#

The battalion chief said he had just gotten into his 
1958 model automobile to move it from the driveway of his home so that 
he could take his other car to work.   "I'd just turned on 
the ignition when there was a big flash and I was lying on the driveway", 
he said.   Gladden's wife and two of his sons, John, 
17, and Jim, 13, were inside the house. The younger boy said the blast 
knocked him out of bed and against the wall. 

#HOOD FLIES OVER HOUSE# 

The explosion sent the hood of the car flying over the roof of 
the house. The left front wheel landed 100 feet away.   Police 
laboratory technicians said the explosive device, containing either ~TNT 
or nitroglycerine, was apparently placed under the left front 
wheel. It was first believed the bomb was rigged to the car's starter.

Gladden had been the target of threatening telephone calls 
in recent months and reportedly received one last night.   The 
fire department here has been torn for months by dissension involving 
top personnel and the fight 
between the fire fighters association and the 
teamsters union. 

#LED FIGHT ON TEAMSTERS#

Gladden has been an 
outspoken critic of the present city administration and led his union's 
battle against the teamsters, which began organizing city firemen 
in 1959.   The fire fighters association here offered a $5,000 reward 
for information leading to the arrest of the person or persons responsible 
for the bombing. A $500 reward was offered by the association's 
local in Kansas City, Kas&.   The association said 
it would post 24 hour guards at Gladden's home and at those of James 
Mining and Eugene Shiflett. Mining is secretary-treasurer of the 
local and Shiflett is a member of its executive committee. Both have 
been active in the association. 

_ANKARA, TURKEY, OCT& 24 (~AP)_- Turkish political leaders 
bowed today to military pressure and agreed to form an emergency national 
front government with Gen& Cemal Gursel as president. 
An agreement between the leaders of four parties which contested indecisive 
elections on Oct& 15 was reached after almost 18 hours of political 
bargaining under the threat of an army coup d'etat.   By-passing 
the military junta which has ruled Turkey since the overthrow 
of Premier Adnan Menderes 17 months ago, the army general staff, 
led by Gen& Cedvet Sunay, had set a deadline for the parties to 
join in a national coalition government.   The army leaders threatened 
to form a new military government if the parties failed to sign 
an eight point protocol agreeing on Gen& Gursel as president. Gen& 
Gursel has headed the military junta the last 17 months. 
The military also had demanded pledges that there would be no changes 
in the laws passed by the junta and no leaders of the Menderes regime 
now in prison would be pardoned.   Party leaders came out of 
the final meeting apparently satisfied and stated that complete agreement 
had been reached on a solution to the crisis created by the elections 
which left no party with enough strength to form a government on its 
own.

Vincent G& Ierulli has been appointed temporary assistant 
district attorney, it was announced Monday by Charles E& Raymond, 
District Attorney.   Ierulli will replace Desmond D& Connall 
who has been called to active military service but is expected back 
on the job by March 31.   Ierulli, 29, has been practicing 
in Portland since November, 1959. He is a graduate of Portland University 
and the Northwestern College of Law. He is married and the 
father of three children.

Helping foreign countries to build a sound political structure 
is more important than aiding them economically, E& M& Martin, 
assistant secretary of state for economic affairs told members of the 
World Affairs Council Monday night.   Martin, who has been 
in office in Washington, D& C&, for 13 months spoke at the 
council's annual meeting at the Multnomah Hotel. He told some 350 
persons that the United States' challenge was to help countries build 
their own societies their own ways, following their own paths.

"We must persuade them to enjoy a way of life which, if not identical, 
is congenial with ours", he said but adding that if they do 
not develop the kind of society they themselves want it will lack ritiuality 
and loyalty. 

#PATIENCE NEEDED#

Insuring that the countries 
have a freedom of choice, he said, was the biggest detriment to the Soviet 
Union.   He cited East Germany where after 15 years of 
Soviet rule it has become necessary to build a wall to keep the people 
in, and added, "so long as people rebel, we must not give up".

Martin called for patience on the part of Americans.   "The 
countries are trying to build in a decade the kind of society we 
took a century to build", he said.   By leaving our doors open 
the United States gives other peoples the opportunity to see us and 
to compare, he said. 

#INDIVIDUAL HELP BEST#

"We have no reason 
to fear failure, but we must be extraordinarily patient", the assistant 
secretary said.   Economically, Martin said, the United 
States could best help foreign countries by helping them help themselves. 
Private business is more effective than government aid, he explained, 
because individuals are able to work with the people themselves.

The United States must plan to absorb the exported goods of 
the country, at what he termed a "social cost".   Martin said 
the government has been working to establish firmer prices on primary 
products which may involve the total income of one country.

The Portland school board was asked Monday to take a positive 
stand towards developing and coordinating with Portland's civil defense 
more plans for the city's schools in event of attack. 
But there seemed to be some difference of opinion as to how far the board 
should go, and whose advice it should follow.   The board members, 
after hearing the coordination plea from Mrs& Ralph H& 
Molvar, 1409 ~SW Maplecrest Dr&, said they thought they had already 
been cooperating.   Chairman C& Richard Mears pointed 
out that perhaps this was not strictly a school board problem, in case 
of atomic attack, but that the board would cooperate so far as possible 
to get the children to where the parents wanted them to go.

Dr& Melvin W& Barnes, 
superintendent, said he thought the schools 
were waiting for some leadership, perhaps on the national level, 
to make sure that whatever steps of planning they took would "be more 
fruitful", and that he had found that other school districts were 
not as far along in their planning as this district.   "Los Angeles 
has said they would send the children to their homes in case of 
disaster", he said. "Nobody really expects to evacuate. I think 
everybody is agreed that we need to hear some voice on the national 
level that would make some sense and in which we would have some confidence 
in following.   Mrs& Molvar, who kept reiterating her request 
that they "please take a stand", said, "We must have faith 
in somebody- on the local level, and it wouldn't be possible for 
everyone to rush to a school to get their children".   Dr& 
Barnes said that there seemed to be feeling that evacuation plans, even 
for a high school where there were lots of cars "might not be realistic 
and would not work".   Mrs& Molvar asked again that 
the board join in taking a stand in keeping with Jack Lowe's program. 
The board said it thought it had gone as far as instructed so far 
and asked for more information to be brought at the next meeting.

It was generally agreed that the subject was important and the board 
should be informed on what was done, is going to be done and what 
it thought should be done. 

_SALEM (~AP)_- The statewide meeting of war mothers Tuesday 
in Salem will hear a greeting from Gov& Mark Hatfield.   Hatfield 
also is scheduled to hold a public United Nations Day reception 
in the state capitol on Tuesday.   His schedule calls for 
a noon speech Monday in Eugene at the Emerald Empire Kiwanis Club.

He will speak to Willamette University Young Republicans 
Thursday night in Salem.   On Friday he will go to Portland 
for the swearing in of Dean Bryson as Multnomah County Circuit 
Judge.   He will attend a meeting of the Republican State Central 
Committee Saturday in Portland and see the Washington-Oregon 
football game.

Beaverton School District No& 48 board members examined blueprints 
and specifications for two proposed junior high schools at a 
Monday night workshop session.   A bond issue which would have 
provided some $3.5 million for construction of the two 900-student schools 
was defeated by district voters in January.   Last week the 
board, by a 4 
to 3 vote, decided to ask voters whether they prefer the 
6-3-3 (junior high school) system or the 8-4 system. Board members 
indicated Monday night this would be done by an advisory poll to be 
taken on Nov& 15, the same date as a $581,000 bond election for the 
construction of three new elementary schools.

Secretary of Labor Arthur Goldberg will speak Sunday night 
at the Masonic Temple at a $25-a-plate dinner honoring Sen& Wayne 
L& Morse, ~D-Ore&.   The dinner is sponsored by organized 
labor and is scheduled for 7 p&m&.   Secretary Goldberg 
and Sen& Morse will hold a joint press conference at the Roosevelt 
Hotel at 4:30 p&m& Sunday, Blaine Whipple, executive secretary 
of the Democratic Party of Oregon, reported Tuesday.

Other speakers for the fund-raising dinner include Reps& Edith 
Green and Al Ullman, Labor Commissioner Norman Nilsen and Mayor 
Terry Schrunk, all Democrats. 

_OAK GROVE (SPECIAL)_- Three positions on the Oak Lodge 
Water 
district board of directors have attracted 11 candidates. The election 
will be Dec& 4 from 8 a&m& to 8 p&m&. Polls will be in 
the water office.   Incumbent Richard Salter seeks re-election 
and is opposed by Donald Huffman for the five-year term. Incumbent 
William Brod is opposed in his re-election bid by Barbara Njust, 
Miles C& Bubenik and Frank Lee.   Five candidates seek the 
place vacated by Secretary Hugh G& Stout. Seeking this two-year 
term are James Culbertson, Dwight M& Steeves, James C& Piersee, 
W&M& Sexton and Theodore W& Heitschmidt.

A stronger stand on their beliefs and a firmer grasp on their 
future were taken Friday by delegates to the 29th general council of 
the Assemblies of God, in session at the Memorial Coliseum. 
The council revised, in an effort to strengthen, the denomination's 
16 basic beliefs adopted in 1966.   The changes, unanimously adopted, 
were felt necessary in the face of modern trends away from the 
Bible. The council agreed it should more firmly state its belief in 
and dependence on the Bible.   At the adoption, the Rev& T& 
F& Zimmerman, general superintendent, commented, "The Assemblies 
of God has been a bulwark for fundamentalism in these modern days 
and has, without compromise, stood for the great truths of the Bible 
for which men in the past have been willing to give their lives". 

#NEW POINT ADDED#

Many changes involved minor editing and clarification; 
however, the first belief stood for entire revision with a 
new third point added to the list.   The first of 16 beliefs of 
the denomination, now reads:   "The scriptures, both Old and 
New Testament, are verbally inspired of God and are the revelation 
of God to man, the infallible, authoritative rule of faith and conduct".

The third belief, in six points, emphasizes the Diety 
of the Lord Jesus Christ, and:  - emphasizes the Virgin 
birth  - the sinless life of Christ  - His miracles 
  - His substitutionary work on the cross  - His bodily 
resurrection from the dead  - and His exaltation to the right 
hand of God. 

#SUPER AGAIN ELECTED#

Friday afternoon the Rev& 
T& F& Zimmerman was reelected for his second consecutive two-year 
term as general superintendent of Assemblies of God. His offices 
are in Springfield, Mo&. Election came on the nominating ballot.

Friday night the delegates heard the need for their forthcoming 
program, "Breakthrough" scheduled to fill the churches for the 
next two years. In his opening address Wednesday the Rev& Mr& 
Zimmerman, urged the delegates to consider a 10-year expansion program, 
with "Breakthrough" the theme for the first two years. 
The Rev& R& L& Brandt, national secretary of the home missions 
department, stressed the need for the first two years' work.

"Surveys show that one out of three Americans has vital contact 
with the church. This means that more than 100 million have no vital 
touch with the church or religious life", he told delegates Friday. 

#CHURCH LOSES PACE#

Talking of the rapid population growth (upwards 
of 12,000 babies born daily) with an immigrant entering the United 
States every 1-1/2 minutes, he said "our organization has not 
been keeping pace with this challenge".   "In 35 years we have 
opened 7,000 churches", the Rev& Mr& Brandt said, adding that 
the denomination had a national goal of one church for every 10,000 
persons.   "In this light we need 1,000 churches in Illinois, 
where we have 200; 800 in Southern New England, we have 60; 
we need 100 in Rhode Island, we have none", he said.   To step 
up the denomination's program, the Rev& Mr& Brandt suggested 
the vision of 8,000 new Assemblies of God churches in the next 10 
years.   To accomplish this would necessitate some changes in methods, 
he said. #'CHURCH MEETS CHANGE'#

"The church's 
ability to change her methods is going to determine her ability to meet 
the challenge of this hour".   A capsule view of proposed plans 
includes:  - Encouraging by every means, all existing Assemblies 
of God churches to start new churches.  - Engaging 
mature, experienced men to pioneer or open new churches in strategic population 
centers.  - Surrounding pioneer pastors with vocational 
volunteers (laymen, who will be urged to move into the area of new 
churches in the interest of lending their support to the new project). 
  - Arranging for ministerial graduates to spend from 6-12 months 
as apprentices in well-established churches.

U&S& Dist& Judge Charles L& Powell denied all motions 
made by defense attorneys Monday in Portland's insurance fraud 
trial.   Denials were of motions of dismissal, continuance, mistrial, 
separate trial, acquittal, striking of testimony and directed 
verdict.   In denying motions for dismissal, Judge Powell stated 
that mass trials have been upheld as proper in other courts and that 
"a person may join a conspiracy without knowing who all of the conspirators 
are".   Attorney Dwight L& Schwab, in behalf of 
defendant Philip Weinstein, argued there is no evidence linking Weinstein 
to the conspiracy, but Judge Powell declared this is a matter 
for the jury to decide. 

#PROOF LACK CHARGED#

Schwab also declared 
there is no proof of Weinstein's entering a conspiracy to use the 
U&S& mails to defraud, to which federal prosecutor A& Lawrence 
Burbank replied:   "It is not necessary that a defendant 
actually have conpired to use the U&S& mails to defraud as long 
as there is evidence of a conspiracy, and the mails were then used 
to carry it out".   In the afternoon, defense attorneys began 
the presentation of their cases with opening statements, some of which 
had been deferred until after the government had called witnesses and 
presented its case. 

_MIAMI, FLA&, MARCH 17_- The Orioles tonight retained the distinction 
of being the only winless team among the eighteen Major-League 
clubs as they dropped their sixth straight spring exhibition decision, 
this one to the Kansas City Athletics by a score of 5 to 3.

Indications as late as the top of the sixth were that the Birds 
were to end their victory draought as they coasted along with a 3-to-o 
advantage. 

#SIEBERN HITS HOMER#

Over the first five frames, Jack 
Fisher, the big righthandler who figures to be in the middle of 
Oriole plans for a drive on the 1961 American League pennant, held 
the ~A's scoreless while yielding three scattered hits.   Then 
Dick Hyde, submarine-ball hurler, entered the contest and only 
five batters needed to face him before there existed a 3-to-3 deadlock.

A two-run homer by Norm Siebern and a solo blast by Bill 
Tuttle tied the game, and single runs in the eighth and ninth gave the 
Athletics their fifth victory in eight starts. 

#HOUSE THROWS WILD# 

With one down in the eighth, Marv Throneberry drew a walk and stole 
second as Hyde fanned Tuttle. Catcher Frank House's throw 
in an effort to nab Throneberry was wide and in the dirt.   Then 
Heywood Sullivan, Kansas City catcher, singled up the middle and 
Throneberry was across with what proved to be the winning run.

Rookie southpaw George Stepanovich relieved Hyde at the start of 
the ninth and gave up the ~A's fifth tally on a walk to second baseman 
Dick Howser, a wild pitch, and Frank Cipriani's single under 
Shortstop Jerry Adair's glove into center.   The Orioles 
once again performed at the plate in powderpuff fashion, gathering 
only seven blows off the offerings of three Kansas City pitchers. Three 
were doubles, Brooks Robinson getting a pair and Marv Breeding 
one. 

#HARTMAN IMPRESSIVE#

Bill Kunkel, Bob Hartman and Ed 
Keegan did the mound chores for the club down from West Palm Beach 
to play the game before 767 paying customers in Miami Stadium.

The Birds got five hits and all three of their runs off Kunkel before 
Hartman took over in the top of the fourth. Hartman, purchased 
by the ~A's from the Milwaukee Braves last fall, allowed no hits 
in his scoreless three-inning appearance, and merited the triumph.

Keegan, a 6-foot-3-inch 158-pounder, gave up the Orioles' last 
two safeties over the final three frames, escaping a load of trouble 
in the ninth when the Birds threatened but 
failed to tally. 

#ROBINSON 
DOUBLES AGAIN#

In the ninth, Robinson led off with his second 
double of the night, a blast off the fence 375 feet deep into left.

Whitey Herzog, performing in right as the Orioles fielded possibly 
their strongest team of the spring, worked Keegan for a base on 
balls.   Then three consecutive pinch-hitters failed to produce.

Pete Ward was sent in for House and, after failing in a bunt 
attempt, popped to Howser on the grass back of short.   John 
Powell, batting for Adair, fanned after fouling off two 2-and-2 pitches, 
and Buddy Barker, up for Stepanovich, bounced out sharply to 
Jerry Lumpe at second to end the 2-hour-and-27-minute contest.

The Orioles got a run in the first inning when Breeding, along with 
Robinson, the two Birds who got a pair of hits, doubled to right 
center, moved to third on Russ Snyder's single to right and crossed 
on Kunkel's wild pitch into the dirt in front of the plate.

The Flock added a pair of tallies in the third on three straight hits 
after two were out.   Jackie Brandt singled deep into the hole 
at short to start the rally. 

#LUMPE ERRS#

Jim Gentile bounced 
a hard shot off Kunkel's glove and beat it out for a single, and 
when Lumpe grabbed the ball and threw it over first baseman Throneberry's 
head Brandt took third and Gentile second on the error.

Then Robinson slammed a long double to left center to score both 
runners. When Robinson tried to stretch his blow into a triple, he 
was cut down in a close play at third, Tuttle to Andy Carey. 
The detailed rundown on the Kansas City scoring in the sixth went 
like this:   Lumpe worked a walk as the first batter to face Hyde 
and romped around as Siebern blasted Hyde's next toss 415 feet 
over the scoreboard in right center. 

#CAREY SINGLES#

Carey singled 
on a slow-bouncing ball to short which Robinson cut across to field 
and threw wide to first. It was ruled a difficult chance and a hit.

Then Throneberry rapped into a fast double play. Breeding 
to Adair to Gentile, setting up Tuttle's 390-foot homer over the 
wall in left center.   If the Orioles are to break their losing 
streak within the next two days, it will have to be at the expense 
of the American League champion New York Yankees, who come in here 
tomorrow for a night game and a single test Sunday afternoon. 

_MIAMI, FLA&, MARCH 17_- The flavor of Baltimore's Florida 
Grapefruit League news ripened considerably late today when the Orioles 
were advised that Ron Hansen has fulfilled his obligations under 
the Army's military training program and is ready for belated 
spring training.   Hansen, who slugged the 1960 Oriole high of 
22 homers and drove in 86 runs on a .255 freshman average, completes the 
Birds' spring squad at 49 players.   The big, 22-year-old 
shortstop, the 1960 American league "rookie-of-the year", flew here 
late this afternoon from Baltimore, signed his contract for an estimated 
$15,000 and was a spectator at tonight's 5-to-3 loss to Kansas 
City- the winless Birds' sixth setback in a row. 

#15 POUNDS 
LIGHTER#

The 6-foot 3 inch Hansen checked in close to 200 pounds, 
15 pounds lighter than his reporting weight last spring. He hopes 
to melt off an additional eight pounds before the Flock breaks camp three 
weeks hence.   When he was inducted into the Army at Fort 
Knox, Ky&, Hansen's weight had dropped to 180- "too light 
for me to be at my best" he said.   "I feel good physically", 
Hansen added, "but I think I'll move better carrying a little 
less weight than I'm carrying now". 

#SEEKS "IMPROVED FIELDING"# 

The rangy, Albany (Cal&) native, a surprise slugging 
sensation for the Flock last year as well as a defensive whiz, set 
"improved fielding" as his 1961 goal.

"I think I can do a better job with the glove, now that I 
know the hitters around the league a little better", he said.

Hansen will engage in his first workout at Miami Stadium prior to 
the opening tomorrow night of a two-game weekend series with the New 
York Yankees.   Skinny Brown and Hoyt Wilhelm, the Flock's 
veteran knuckleball specialists, are slated to oppose the American 
League champions in tomorrow's 8 P&M& contest. 

#DUREN, SHELDON 
ON HILL#

Ryne Duren and Roland Sheldon, a rookie righthander 
who posted a 15-1 record last year for the Yanks' Auburn (N&Y&) 
farm club of the Class-~D New York-Pennsylvania League, 
are the probable rival pitchers.   Twenty-one-year-old Milt Pappas 
and Jerry Walker, 22, are scheduled to share the Oriole mound 
chores against the Bombers' Art Ditmar in Sunday's 2 P&M& 
encounter.   Ralph Houk, successor to Casey Stengel at the 
Yankee helm, plans to bring the entire New York squad here from 
St& Petersburg, including Joe Dimaggio and large crowds are anticipated 
for both weekend games. The famed Yankee Clipper, now retired, 
has been assisting as a batting coach. 

#SQUAD CUT NEAR#

Pitcher 
Steve Barber joined the club one week ago after completing his hitch 
under the Army's accelerated wintertime military course, also at 
Fort Knox, Ky&. The 22-year-old southpaw enlisted earlier last 
fall than did Hansen.   Baltimore's bulky spring-training contingent 
now gradually will be reduced as Manager Paul Richards and 
his coaches seek to trim it down to a more streamlined and workable unit. 
#@#

"Take a ride on this one", Brooks Robinson greeted 
Hansen as the Bird third sacker grabbed a bat, headed for the plate 
and bounced a third-inning two-run double off the left-centerfield 
wall tonight.   It was the first of two doubles by Robinson, 
who was in a mood to celebrate.   Just before game time, Robinson's 
pretty wife, Connie informed him that an addition to the family 
can be expected late next summer.   Unfortunately, Brooks' 
teammates were not in such festive mood as the Orioles expired before 
the seven-hit pitching of three Kansas City rookie hurlers. #@# 

Hansen arrived just before nightfall, two hours late, in company 
with Lee MacPhail; J& A& W& Iglehart, chairman of the 
Oriole board of directors, and Public Relations Director Jack Dunn.

Their flight was delayed, Dunn said, when a boarding ramp 
inflicted some minor damage to the wing of the plane. #@#

Ex-Oriole 
Clint Courtney, now catching for the ~A's is all for the 
American League's 1961 expansion to the West Coast.   "But 
they shouldda brought in Tokyo, too", added Old Scrapiron. 
"Then we'd really have someplace to go". 

_BOWIE, MD&, MARCH 17_- Gaining her second straight victory, 
Norman B&, Small, Jr&'s Garden Fresh, a 3-year-old filly, 
downed promising colts in the $4,500 St& Patrick's Day Purse, 
featured seventh race here today, and paid $7.20 straight.   Toying 
with her field in the early stages, Garden Fresh was asked for 
top speed only in the stretch by Jockey Philip Grimm and won by a length 
and a half in 1.24 3-5 for the 7 furlongs. 

#8,280 ATTEND RACES# 

Richard M& Forbes's Paget, which had what seemed to be a 
substantial lead in the early stages, tired rapidly nearing the wire and 
was able to save place money only a head in front of Glen T& 
Hallowell's 
Milties Miss.   A bright sun and brisk wind had the 
track in a fast condition for the first time this week and 8,280 St& 
Patty Day celebrants bet $842,617 on the well-prepared program.

Prior to the featured race, the stewards announced that apprentice 
James P& Verrone is suspended ten days for crowding horses and 
crossing the field sharply in two races on Wednesday. 

#CULMONE GETS 
FIRST WIN#

Garden Fresh, the result of a mating of Better Self 
and Rosy Fingered, seems to improve with each start and appeared to 
win the St& Patrick's Day Purse with some speed in reserve. 
She was moving up to the allowance department after winning a $10,000 
claiming event. 

_CLEVELAND, MARCH 17 (~AP)_- George Kerr, the swift-striding 
Jamaican, set a meet record in the 600-yard run in the Knights of Columbus 
track meet tonight, beating Purdue's Dave Mills in a hot 
duel in 1.10.1.   Kerr, who set the world record earlier this month 
in New York with a clocking of 1.09.3, wiped out Mills's early 
pace and beat the young Big 10 quarter-mile king by 5 yards. Both 
were under the meet mark of 1.10.8 set in 1950 by Mal Whitfield.

Mills shot out in front and kept the lead through two thirds of 
the race. Then Kerr, a graduate student from Illinois, moved past 
him on a straightaway and held off Mills's challenge on the final turn. 
Mills was timed in 1.10.4.   The crowd at the twenty-first 
annual K& of C& Games, final indoor meet of the season, got a 
thrill a few minutes earlier when a slender, bespectacled woman broke 
the one-week-old world record in the half-mile run.   Mrs& Grace 
Butcher, of nearby Chardon, a 27-year-old housewife who has two 
children, finished in 2.21.6. She snapped five tenths of a second off 
the mark set by Helen Shipley, of Wellsley College, in the National 
A&A&U& meet in Columbus, Ohio. 

_SAN FRANCISCO, MARCH 17 (~AP)_- Bobby Waters of Sylvania, 
Ga&, relief quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers of the National 
Football League, will undergo a knee operation tomorrow at Franklin 
Hospital here.   Waters injured his left knee in the last 
game of the 1960 season. While working out in Sylvania a swelling 
developed in the knee and he came here to consult the team physician._ST& 
PETERSBURG, FLA&, MARCH 17 (~AP)_- Two errors by New 
York Yankee shortstop Tony Kubek in the eleventh inning donated 
four unearned runs and a 5-to-2 victory to the Chicago White Sox 
today. 

_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- A Texas halfback who doesn't even know the 
team's plays, Eldon Moritz, ranks fourth in Southwest Conference 
scoring after three games.   Time stands still every time Moritz, 
a 26-year-old Army Signal Corps veteran, goes into the field. Although 
he never gets to play while the clock is running, he gets a big 
kick- several every Saturday, in fact- out of football. 
Moritz doesn't even have a nose guard or hip pads but he's one of 
the most valuable members of the Longhorn team that will be heavily 
favored Saturday over Oklahoma in the Cotton Bowl.   That's 
because he already has kicked 14 extra points in 15 tries. He ran 
his string of successful conversions this season to 13 straight before 
one went astray last Saturday night in the 41-8 slaughter of Washington 
State.   Moritz is listed on the Longhorn roster as a right 
halfback, the position at which he lettered on the 1956 team. But 
ask coach Darrell Royal what position he plays and you'll get the 
quick response, "place-kicker".   A 208-pound, 6-foot 1-inch 
senior from Stamford, Moritz practices nothing but place-kicking. Last 
year, when he worked out at halfback all season, he didn't get 
into a single game.   "This year, coach Royal told me if I'd 
work on my place-kicking he thought he could use me", said Moritz. 
"So I started practicing on it in spring training.   Moritz 
was bothered during the first two games this year by a pulled muscle 
in the thigh of his right (kicking) leg and, as a result, several of 
his successful conversions have gone barely far enough.   Moritz 
said Monday his leg feels fine and, as a result, he hopes to start 
practicing field goals this week. He kicked several while playing at 
Stamford High School, including one that beat Anson, 3-0, in a 1953 
district game.   "I kicked about 110 extra points in 135 tries 
during three years in high school", he said, "and made 26 in a 
row at one time. I never did miss one in a playoff game- I kicked 
about 20 in the five playoff games my last two years".   Moritz 
came to Texas in 1954 but his freshman football efforts were hampered 
by a knee injury. He missed the 1955 season because of an operation 
on 
the ailing knee, then played 77 minutes in 1956. His statistical record 
that year, when Texas won only one game and lost nine, was far from 
impressive: he carried the ball three times for a net gain of 10 
yards, punted once for 39 yards and caught one pass for 13 yards.

He went into the Army in March, 1957, and returned two years later. 
But he was scholastically ineligible in 1959 and merely present 
last season.   Place kicking is largely a matter of timing, Moritz 
declared.   "Once you get the feel of it, there's not much 
to it. I've tried to teach some of the other boys to kick and some 
of them can't seem to get the feel. Practice helps you to get your 
timing down.   "It's kind of like golf- if you don't 
swing a club very often, your timing gets off".   Moritz, however, 
kicks only about 10 or 12 extra points during each practice session.

"If you kick too much, your leg gets kinda dead", he 
explained. @ _FOOTNOTES:_ In their first three games, the Longhorns 
have had the ball 41 times and scored 16 times, or 40 per cent 
**h their total passing yardage in three games, 447 on 30 completions 
in 56 attempts, is only 22 yards short of their total passing yardage 
in 1959, when they made 469 on 37 completions in 86 tries **h. Tailback 
James Saxton already has surpassed his rushing total for his brilliant 
sophomore season, when he netted 271 yards on 55 carries; he 
now has 273 yards in 22 tries during three games **h. Saxton has made 
only one second-half appearance this season and that was in the Washington 
State game, for four plays: he returned the kickoff 30 yards, 
gained five yards through the line and then uncorked a 56-yard touchdown 
run before retiring to the bench **h. Wingback Jack Collins injured 
a knee in the Washington State game but insists he'll be ready 
for Oklahoma **h. Last week, when Royal was informed that three 
Longhorns were among the conference's top four in rushing, he said: 
"That won't last long". It didn't; Monday, he had four 
Longhorns in the top four **h.

A good feeling prevailed on the ~SMU coaching staff Monday, 
but attention quickly turned from Saturday's victory to next week's 
problem: Rice University. The Mustangs don't play this 
week.   "We're just real happy for the players", Coach Bill 
Meek said of the 9-7 victory over the Air Force Academy. "I 
think the big thing about the game was that our kids for the third straight 
week stayed in there pitching and kept the pressure on. It was 
the first time we've been ahead this season (when John Richey kicked 
what proved to be the winning field goal)".   Assistant coach 
John Cudmore described victory as "a good feeling, I think, on 
the part of the coaches and the players. We needed it and we got it".

Meek expressed particular gratification at the defensive 
performances of end Happy Nelson and halfback Billy Gannon. Both 
turned in top jobs for the second straight game.   "Nelson played 
magnificent football", Meek praised. "He knocked down the interference 
and made key stops lots of times. And he caused the fumble 
that set up our touchdown. He broke that boy (Air Force fullback Nick 
Arshinkoff) in two and knocked him loose from the football".

Gannon contributed saving plays on the Falcons' aerial thrusts 
in the late stages.   One was on a fourth-down screen pass from 
the Mustang 21 after an incomplete pass into Gannon's territory.

"As soon as it started to form, Gannon spotted it", Meek 
said. "He timed it just right and broke through there before the 
boy (halfback Terry Isaacson) had time to turn around. He really crucified 
him **h he nailed it for a yard loss".   The Air Force's, 
and the game's, final play, was a long pass by quarterback 
Bob McNaughton which Gannon intercepted on his own 44 and returned 
22 yards.   "He just lay back there and waited for it", Meek 
said. "He almost brought it back all the way".   Except 
for sophomore center Mike Kelsey and fullback Mike Rice, Meek expects 
the squad to be physically sound for Rice.   "Kelsey is 
very doubtful for the Rice game", Meek said. "He'll be out of 
action all this week. He got hit from the blind side by the split end 
coming back on the second play of the game. There is definitely some 
ligament damage in his knee".   Rice has not played since injuring 
a knee in the opener with Maryland.   "He's looking 
a lot better, and he's able to run", Meek explained. "We'll 
let him do a lot of running this week, but I don't know if he'll 
be able to play".   The game players saw the Air Force film 
Monday, ran for 30 minutes, then went in, while the reserves scrimmaged 
for 45 minutes.   "We'll work hard Tuesday, Wednesday 
and Thursday", Meek said, "and probably will have a good scrimmage 
Friday. We'll work out about an hour on Saturday, then we'll 
work Monday and Tuesday of next week, then taper off".   ~SMU 
will play the Owls at Rice Stadium in Houston in a night game 
Saturday, Oct& 21. 

#HUDDLE HEARSAY#- Held out of {Texas 
Tech's} sweat-suits drill Monday at Lubbock was tackle {Richard 
Stafford}, who is undergoing treatment for a leg injury suffered 
in the Raiders' 38-7 loss to Texas ~A+~M **h Because 
of its important game with Arkansas coming up Saturday, {Baylor} 
worked out in the rain Monday- mud or no mud **h End {Gene 
Raesz}, who broke a hand in the Owl's game with ~LSU, was back 
working out with {Rice} 
Monday, and {John Nichols}, sophomore 
guard, moved back into action after a week's idleness with an ankle 
injury **h The {Texas Aggies} got a day off Monday- a special 
gift from Coach Jim Myers for its conference victory last Saturday 
night, but Myers announced that halfback {George Hargett}, 
shaken up in the Tech game, would not play against Trinity Saturday 
**h Halfback {Bud Priddy}, slowed for almost a month by a 
slowly-mending sprained ankle, joined ~{TCU's} workout Monday.

The Dallas Texans were back home Monday with their third victory 
in four American Football League starts- a 19-12 triumph over 
the Denver Broncos- but their visit will be a short one. 
The Texans have two more road games- at Buffalo and Houston- 
before they play for the home folks again, and it looks as if coach Hank 
Stram's men will meet the Bills just as they are developing into 
the kind of team they were expected to be in pre-season reckonings.

Buffalo coach Buster Ramsey, who has become one of the game's 
greatest collectors of quarterbacks, apparently now has found a productive 
pair in two ex-National Football Leaguers, M& C& Reynolds 
and Warren Rabb.   Rabb, the former Louisiana State 
field general, came off the bench for his debut with the Bills Sunday 
and directed his new team to a 22-12 upset victory over the Houston 
Oilers, defending league champions.   "Just our luck"! exclaimed 
Stram. "Buster would solve that quarterback problem just 
as we head that way".   Ramsey has a thing or two to mutter about 
himself, for the Dallas defensive unit turned in another splendid 
effort against Denver, and the Texans were able to whip the dangerous 
Broncs without the fullbacking of a top star, Jack Spikes, though 
he did the team's place-kicking while nursing a knee injury.

"Our interior line and out linebackers played exceptionally well", 
said Stram Monday after he and his staff reviewed movies of the 
game. "In fact our whole defensive unit did a good job". 
The Texans won the game through ball control, with Quarterback Cotton 
Davidson throwing only 17 passes.   "We always like to keep 
the ball as much as we can against Denver because they have such an 
explosive attack", explained Stram. "They can be going along, 
doing little damage, then bang, bang- they can hit a couple of passes 
on you for touchdowns and put you in trouble".   The Broncs 
did hit two quick strikes in the final period against the Texans, but 
Dallas had enough of a lead to hold them off.   The principal 
tactic in controlling the ball was giving it to Abner Haynes, the flashy 
halfback. He was called upon 26 times- more than all of the other 
ball-carriers combined- and delivered 145 yards.   The Texans 
made themselves a comforting break on the opening kickoff when Denver's 
Al Carmichael was jarred loose from the ball when Dave Grayson, 
the speedy halfback, hit him and Guard Al Reynolds claimed 
it for Dallas. A quick touchdown resulted.   "That permitted 
us to start controlling the ball right away", said Stram, quipping, 
"I think I'll put that play in the book".

The early Southwest Conference football leaders- Texas, Arkansas 
and Texas ~A+~M- made a big dent in the statistics last 
week.   Texas' 545-yard spree against Washington State gave 
the Longhorns a 3-game total offense of 1,512 yards (1,065 rushing 
and 447 passing) a new ~SWC high.   Arkansas combined 280 
yards rushing with 64 yards passing (on 5 completions in 7 tosses) and 
a tough defense to whip ~TCU, and ~A+~M, with a 38-point 
bulge against Texas Tech ran up its biggest total loop play since 1950. 
Completing 12 of 15 passes for 174 yards, the Aggies had a total 
offense of 361 yards.   Texas leads in per-game rushing averages, 
355 yards, and passing 149 (to Baylor's 126), but idle Baylor has 
the best defensive record (187.5 yards per game to Texas' 189). 
~A+~M has the best defense against passes, 34.7 yards per game.

Not satisfied with various unofficial checks on the liveliness 
of baseballs currently in use, the major leagues have ordered their own 
tests, which are in progress at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

{Rookie Ron Nischwitz continued his pinpoint pitching Monday 
night as the Bears made it two straight over Indianapolis, 5-3}.

The husky 6-3, 205-pound lefthander, was in command all the 
way before an on-the-scene audience of only 949 and countless of television 
viewers in the Denver area.   It was Nischwitz' third 
straight victory of the new season and ran the Grizzlies' winning 
streak to four straight. They now lead Louisville by a full game on 
top of the American Association pack.   {Nischwitz fanned six 
and walked only Charley Hinton in the third inning. He has given 
only the one pass in his 27 innings, an unusual characteristic for a 
southpaw}.   The Bears took the lead in the first inning, as 
they did in Sunday's opener, and never lagged.   Dick McAuliffe 
cracked the first of his two doubles against Lefty Don Rudolph 
to open the Bear's attack. After Al Paschal gruonded out, Jay 
Cooke walked and Jim McDaniel singled home McAuliffe. Alusik then 
moved Cooke across with a line drive to left. Jay Porter drew a 
base on balls to fill the bases but Don Wert's smash was knocked 
down by Rudolph for the putout.   The Bears added two more in 
the fifth when McAuliffe dropped a double into the leftfield corner, 
Paschal doubled down the rightfield line and Cooke singled off Phil 
Shartzer's glove.   {Nischwitz was working on a 3-hitter 
when the Indians bunched three of their eight hits for two runs in the 
sixth. Chuck Hinton tripled to the rightfield corner, Cliff Cook 
and Dan Pavletich singled and Gaines' infielder roller accounted 
for 
the tallies}.   The Bears added their last run in the sixth 
on Alusik's double and outfield flies by Porter and Wert.

Gaines hammered the ball over the left fence for the third Indianapolis 
run in the ninth.   Despite the 45-degree weather the game 
was clicked off in 1:48, thanks to only three bases on balls and some 
good infield play.   Chico Ruiz made a spectacular play on Alusik's 
grounder in the hole in the fourth and Wert came up with some 
good stops and showed a strong arm at third base. 

#BINGLES AND BOBBLES:# 
{Cliff Cook} accounted for three of the Tribe's 
eight hits **h It was the season's first night game and an obvious 
refocusing of the lights are in order **h The infield was well flooded 
but the expanded outfield was much too dark **h {Mary Dobbs Tuttle} 
was back at the organ **h Among the spectators was the noted exotic 
dancer, {Patti Waggin} who is Mrs& Don Rudolph when off 
the stage. **h {Lefty Wyman Carey}, another Denver rookie, 
will be on the mound against veteran {John Tsitouris} at 8 o'clock 
Tuesday night **h {Ed Donnelly} is still bothered by a side 
injury and will miss his starting turn. 

_DALLAS, TEX&, MAY 1- (~AP)_- Kenny Lane of Muskegon, 
Mich&, world's seventh ranked lightweight, had little trouble in 
taking a unanimous decision over Rip Randall of Tyler, Tex&, here 
Monday night. 

_ST& PAUL-MINNEAPOLIS, MAY 1- (~AP)_- {Billy Gardner's 
line double, which just eluded the diving Minnie Minoso in left 
field, drove in Jim Lemon with the winning run with two out in the 
last of the ninth to give the Minnesota Twins a 6-5 victory over the 
Chicago White Sox Monday}.   Lemon was on with his fourth 
single of the game, a liner to center. He came all the way around on 
Gardner's hit before 5777 fans. It was Gardner's second run batted 
in of the game and his only ones of the year.   Turk Lown 
was tagged with the loss, his second against no victories, while Ray 
Moore won his second game against a single loss.   The Twins tied 
the score in the sixth inning when Reno Bertoia beat out a high 
chopper to third base and scored on Lenny Green's double to left.

The White Sox had taken a 5-4 lead in the top of the sixth on 
a pair of pop fly hits- a triple by Roy Sievers and single by Camilo 
Carreon- a walk and a sacrifice fly.   Jim Landis' 380-foot 
home run over left in the first inning gave the Sox a 1-0 lead, 
but Harmon Killebrew came back in the bottom of the first with his 
second homer in two days with the walking Bob Allison aboard.

Al Smith's 340-blast over left in the fourth- his fourth homer 
of the campaign- tied the score and Carreon's first major league 
home run in the fifth put the Sox back in front.   A double by 
Green, Allison's run-scoring 2-baser, an infield single by Lemon 
and Gardner's solid single to center put the Twins back in front 
in the last of the fifth. 

_OGDEN, UTAH, MAY 1- (~AP)_- Boston Red Sox Outfielder 
Jackie Jensen said Monday night he was through playing baseball.

"I've had it", he told a newsman. "I know when my reflexes 
are gone and I'm not going to be any 25th man on the ball club".

This was the first word from Jensen on his sudden walkout.

Jensen got only six hits in 46 at-bats for a .130 batting average 
in the first 12 games.   He took a midnight train out of Cleveland 
Saturday, without an official word to anybody, and has stayed 
away from newsmen on his train trip across the nation to Reno, Nev&, 
where his wife, former Olympic Diving Champion Zoe Ann Olsen, 
awaited.   She said, when she learned Jackie was heading home: 
"I'm just speculating, but I have to think Jack feels he's 
hurting Boston's chances".   The Union Pacific Railroad 
streamliner, City of San Francisco, stopped in Ogden, Utah, for 
a few minutes. Sports Writer Ensign Ritchie of the Ogden Standard 
Examiner went to his compartment to talk with him.   The conductor 
said to Ritchie: "I don't think you want to talk to him. 
You'll probably get a ball bat on the head. He's mad at the 
world".   But Jackie had gone into the station. Ritchie walked 
up to him at the magazine stand.   "I told him who I was and 
he was quite cold. But he warmed up after a while. I told him what 
Liston had said and he said Liston was a double-crosser and said anything 
he (Liston) got was through a keyhole. He said he had never 
talked to Liston".   Liston is Bill Liston, baseball writer 
for the Boston Traveler, who quoted Jensen as saying: 
"I 
can't hit anymore. I can't run. I can't throw. Suddenly my 
reflexes are gone.

{JUST WHEN IT SEEMS baseball might be losing its grip on 
the masses up pops heroics to start millions of tongues to wagging}.

And so it was over the weekend what with 40-year-old Warren 
Spahn pitching his no-hit masterpiece against the Giants and the Giants' 
Willie Mays retaliating with a record-tying 4-homer spree 
Sunday.   Both, of course, were remarkable feats and further embossed 
the fact that baseball rightfully is the national pastime.

Of the two cherished achievements the elderly Spahn's hitless pitching 
probably reached the most hearts.   It was a real stimulant 
to a lot of guys I know who have moved past the 2-score-year milestone. 
And one of the Milwaukee rookies sighed and remarked, "Wish 
I was 40, and a top-grade big leaguer. #@#

{THE MODEST 
AND 
HAPPY} Spahn waved off his new laurels as one of those good days. 
But there surely can be no doubt about the slender southpaw belonging 
with the all-time great lefthanders in the game's history.

Yes, with Bob Grove, Carl Hubbell, Herb Pennock, Art Nehf, 
Vernon Gomez, et al.   {Spahn not only is a superior pitcher 
but a gentlemanly fine fellow, a ball player's ball player, as they 
say in the trade}.   I remember his beardown performance in 
a meaningless exhibition game at Bears Stadium Oct& 14, 1951, before 
a new record crowd for the period of 18,792. #@#

{"SPAHNIE 
DOESN'T KNOW} how to merely go through the motions", remarked 
Enos Slaughter, another all-out guy, who played rightfield that 
day and popped one over the clubhouse.   The spectacular Mays, 
who reaches a decade in the big leagues come May 25, joined six other 
sluggers who walloped four home runs in a span of nine innings.

{Incidentally, only two did it before a home audience. Bobby Lowe 
of Boston was the first to hit four at home and Gil Hodges turned 
the trick in Brooklyn's Ebbetts Field}.   Ed Delahanty 
and Chuck Klein of the Phillies, the Braves' Joe Adcock, Lou 
Gehrig of the Yankees, Pat Seerey of the White Sox and Rocky 
Colavito, then with Cleveland, made their history on the road. #@#

WILLIE'S BIG DAY REVIVED} the running argument about 
the 
relative merits of Mays and Mickey Mantle.   This is an issue 
which boils down to a matter of opinion, depending on whether you're 
an American or National fan and anti or pro-Yankee. The record 
books, however, would favor the Giants' ace.   In four of his 
nine previous seasons Mays hit as many as 25 home runs and stole as 
many as 25 bases. Once the figure was 30-30. Willie's lifetime batting 
average of .318 is 11 points beyond Mickey's.   {The 
Giants who had been anemic with the bat in their windy Candlestick 
Park suddenly found the formula in Milwaukee's park. It will forever 
be a baseball mystery how a team will suddenly start hitting after 
a distressing slump}. #@#

{THE DENVER-AREA ~TV} 
audience was privileged to see Mays' four home runs, thanks to a 
new arrangement made by Bob Howsam that the games are not to be blacked 
out when his Bears are playing at home.   This rule providing 
for a blackout of televised baseball 30 minutes before the start of 
a major or minor league game in any area comes from the game's top 
rulers.   {The last couple of years the Bears management got 
the business from the "Living Room Athletic Club" when games 
were cut off. Actually they were helpless to do anything about the nationwide 
policy}.   This year, I am told, the ~CBS network 
will continue to abide by the rule but ~NBC will play to a conclusion 
here. There are two more Sunday afternoons when the situation 
will arise.   It is an irritable rule that does baseball more 
harm than good, especially at the minor league level. You would be surprised 
how many fans purposely stayed away from Bears Stadium last 
year because of the television policy.   This dissatisfaction led 
to Howsam's request that the video not be terminated before the end 
of the game. 

_CINCINNATI, OHIO (~AP)_- The powerful New York Yankees 
won their 19th world series in a 5-game romp over outclassed Cincinnati, 
crushing the Reds in a humiliating 13-5 barrage Monday in the loosely 
played finale.   With Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra both 
out of action due to injuries, the American League champs still mounted 
a 15-hit attack against a parade of eight Cincinnati pitchers, 
the most ever used by one team in a series game.   Johnny Blanchard, 
Mantle's replacement, slammed a 2-run homer as the Yankees routed 
loser Joey Jay in a 5-run first inning. Hector Lopez, subbing 
for Berra, smashed a 3-run homer off Bill Henry during another 5-run 
explosion in the fourth.   The Yanks also took advantage of 
three Cincinnati errors.   The crowd of 32,589 had only two chances 
to applaud.   In the third Frank Robinson hammered a long 
home run deep into the corner of the bleachers in right center, about 
400 feet away, with two men on. Momentarily the Reds were back in 
the ball game, trailing only 6-3, but the drive fizzled when John Edwards 
fouled out with men on second and third and two out.   In 
the fifth, Wally Post slashed a 2-run homer off Bud Daley, but by 
that time the score was 11-5 and it really didn't matter.   The 
Yankee triumph made Ralph Houk only the third man to lead a team 
to both a pennant and a World Series victory in his first year as a 
manager. Only Bucky Harris, the "boy-manager" of Washington in 
1924, and Eddie Dyer of the St& Louis Cardinals in 1946 had accomplished 
the feat. 

_PHILADELPHIA, JAN& 23_- Nick Skorich, the line coach for the 
football champion Philadelphia Eagles, was elevated today to head 
coach.   Skorich received a three-year contract at a salary believed 
to be between $20,000 and $25,000 a year. He succeeds Buck Shaw, 
who retired at the end of last season.   The appointment was 
announced at a news conference at which Skorich said he would retain 
two members of Shaw's staff- Jerry Williams and Charlie Gauer.

Williams is a defensive coach. Gauer works with the ends. 

#CHOICE WAS EXPECTED#

The selection had been expected. Skorich 
was considered the logical choice after the club gave Norm Van Brocklin 
permission to seek the head coaching job with the Minnesota Vikings, 
the newest National Football League entry.   Van Brocklin, 
the quarterback who led the Eagles to the title, was signed by the 
Vikings last Wednesday. Philadelphia permitted him to seek a better 
connection after he had refused to reconsider his decision to end 
his career as a player.   With Skorich at the helm, the Eagles 
are expected to put more emphasis on running, rather than passing. In 
the past the club depended largely on Van Brocklin's aerials.

Skorich, however, is a strong advocate of a balanced attack- split 
between running and passing. 

#COACH PLAYED 3 YEARS#

Skorich, 
who is 39 years old, played football at Cincinnati University and 
then had a three-year professional career as a lineman under Jock Sutherland 
with the Pittsburgh Steelers.   An injury forced Skorich 
to quit after the 1948 season. He began his coaching career at Pittsburgh 
Central Catholic High School in 1949. He remained there 
for four years before moving to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
in Troy, N& Y&. He was there one season before rejoining the Steelers 
as an assistant coach.   Four years later he resigned to 
take a similar job with the Green Bay Packers. The Eagles signed 
him for Shaw's staff in 1959.   Skorich began his new job auspiciously 
today. At a ceremony in the reception room of Mayor Richardson 
Dilworth, the Eagles were honored for winning the championship.

Shaw and Skorich headed a group of players, coaches and team 
officials who received an engrossed copy of an official city citation 
and a pair of silver cufflinks shaped like a football.

With the announcement of a "special achievement award" to 
William A& (Bill) Shea, the awards list was completed yesterday 
for Sunday night's thirty-eighth annual dinner and show of the New 
York Chapter, Baseball Writers' Association of America, at the 
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.   Shea, the chairman of Mayor Wagner's 
Baseball Committee, will be joined on the dais by Warren Spahn, 
the southpaw pitching ace of the Milwaukee Braves; Frank Graham, 
the Journal-American sports columnist; Bill Mazeroski, the 
World Series hero of the Pittsburgh Pirates, and Casey Stengel, 
the former manager of the Yankees.   Stengel will receive the 
Ben Epstein Good Guy Award. Mazeroski, whose homer beat the Yankees 
in the final series game, will receive the Babe Ruth Award as 
the outstanding player in the 1960 world series.   Graham will 
be recognized for his meritorious service to baseball and will get the 
William J& Slocum Memorial Award. To Spahn will go the Sid 
Mercer Memorial Award as the chapter's player of the year. 

#SHOW 
FOLLOWS CEREMONIES#

A crowd of 1,400 is expected for the ceremonies, 
which will be followed by the show in which the writers will lampoon 
baseball personalities in skit, dance and song.   The 53-year-old 
Shea, a prominent corporation lawyer with a sports background, 
is generally recognized as the man most responsible for the imminent return 
of a National League club to New York. Named by Mayor Wagner 
three years ago 
to head a committee that included James A& Farley, 
Bernard Gimbel and Clint Blume, Shea worked relentlessly.

His goal was to obtain a National League team for this city. The 
departure of the Giants and the Dodgers to California left New York 
with only the Yankees.   Despite countless barriers and disappointments, 
Shea moved forward. When he was unable to bring about 
immediate expansion, he sought to convince another National League 
club to move here.   When that failed, he enlisted Branch Rickey's 
aid in the formation of a third major league, the Continental, 
with New York as the key franchise. The Continental League never 
got off the ground, but after two years it forced the existing majors 
to expand. 

#FLUSHING STADIUM IN WORKS#

The New York franchise 
is headed by Mrs& Charles Shipman Payson. A big-league municipal 
stadium at Flushing Meadow Park is in the works, and once the lease 
is signed the local club will be formally recognized by Commissioner 
Ford C& Frick. Shea's efforts figure prominently in the new 
stadium.   Shea and his wife, Nori, make their home at Sands 
Point, L& I&. Bill Jr&, 20; Kathy, 15, and Patricia, 
9, round out the Shea family.   Shea was born in Manhattan. He 
attended New York University before switching to Georgetown University 
in Washington. He played basketball there while working toward 
a law degree.   Later, Shea owned and operated the Long Island 
Indians, a minor league professional football team. He was the lawyer 
for Ted Collins' old Boston Yankees in the National Football 
League. #@#

All was quiet in the office of the Yankees 
and the local National Leaguers yesterday. On Friday, Roger Maris, 
the Yankee outfielder and winner of the American League's most-valuable-player 
award, will meet with Roy Hamey, the general manager. 
Maris is in line for a big raise.

Arnold Palmer and Sam Snead will be among those honored at 
the national awards dinner of the Metropolitan Golf Writers Association 
tonight. The dinner will be held at the Hotel Pierre. 
Palmer, golf's leading money-winner in 1960, and Snead will be saluted 
as the winning team in the Canada Cup matches last June in Dublin. 
Deane Beman, the National Amateur champion, and all the metropolitan 
district champions, including Bob Gardner, the amateur title-holder, 
also will receive awards.   The writers' Gold Tee 
Award will go to John McAuliffe of Plainfield, N& J&, and 
Palm Beach, Fla&, for his sponsorship of charity tournaments. Horton 
Smith of Detroit, a former president of the Professional Golfers 
Association, will receive the Ben Hogan Trophy for his comeback 
following a recent illness.   The principal speaker will be Senator 
Stuart Symington, Democrat of Missouri. 

#GOLF'S GOLDEN BOY#

ARNOLD PALMER has been a blazing figure 
in golf over the past twelve months. He won the Masters, the United 
States Open and a record $80,738 in prize money. He was heralded 
as "Sportsman of the Year" by Sports Illustrated, and last night 
was acclaimed in Rochester as the "Professional Athlete of the 
Year", a distinction that earned for him the $10,000 diamond- studded 
Hickok Belt.   But he also achieved something that endeared 
him to every duffer who ever flubbed a shot. A couple of weeks ago, 
he scored a monstrous 12 on a par-5 hole. It made him human. And 
it also stayed the hands of thousands of brooding incompetents who were 
meditating the abandonment of a sport whose frustrations were driving 
them to despair. If such a paragon of perfection as Palmer could 
commit such a scoring sacrilege, there was hope left for all.   It 
was neither a spirit of self-sacrifice nor a yen to encourage the downtrodden 
that motivated Arnold. He merely became victimized by a form 
of athletics that respects no one and aggravates all. The world's 
best golfer, shooting below par, came to the last hole of the opening 
round of the Los Angeles open with every intention of delivering 
a final crusher. He boomed a 280-yard drive. Then the pixies and the 
zombies took over while the banshees wailed in the distance. 

#NO MARGIN 
FOR ERROR#

On the narrow fairway of a 508-yard hole, Arnold whipped 
into his second shot. The ball went off in a majestic arc, an 
out-of-bounds slice. He tried again and once more sliced out of bounds. 
He hooked the next two out of bounds on the opposite side. 
"It is possible that I over-corrected", he said ruefully. Each 
of the four wayward shots cost him two strokes. So he wound up with a 
dozen.   "It was a nice round figure, that 12", he said as 
he headed for the clubhouse, not too much perturbed.   From the 
standpoint of the army of duffers, however, this was easily the most heartening 
exhibition they had had since Ben Hogan fell upon evil ways 
during his heyday and scored an 11 in the Texas open. The idol of 
the hackers, of course, is Ray Ainsley, who achieved a 19 in the United 
States Open. Their secondary hero is another pro, Willie Chisholm, 
who drank his lunch during another Open and tried to blast his 
way out of a rock-strewn gully. Willie's partner was Long Jim Barnes, 
who tried to keep count. 

#STICKLER FOR RULES#

"How many 
is that, Jim"? asked Willie at one stage of his excavation project.

"Thirteen", said Long Jim.   "Nae, man", 
said Willie, "ye must be countin' the echoes". He had a 16.

Palmer's dozen were honestly earned. Nor were there any rules 
to save him. If there had been, he would have found a loophole, because 
Arnold is one golfer who knows the code as thoroughly as the man 
who wrote the book. This knowledge has come in handy, too.   His 
first shot in the Open last year landed in a brook that flowed along 
the right side of the fairway. The ball floated downstream. A spectator 
picked up the ball and handed it to a small boy, who dropped this 
suddenly hot potato in a very playable lie.   Arnold sent for 
Joe Dey, the executive secretary of the golf association. Joe naturally 
ruled that a ball be dropped from alongside the spot where it had 
originally entered the stream.   "I knew it all along", confessed 
Arnold with a grin, "but I just happened to think how much 
nicer it would be to drop one way up there".   For a serious young 
man who plays golf with a serious intensity, Palmer has such an 
inherent sense of humor that it relieves the strain and keeps his nerves 
from jangling like banjo strings. Yet he remains the fiercest of competitors. 
He'll even bull head-on into the rules when he is sure 
he's right. That's how he first won the Masters in 1958. 
It happened on the twelfth hole, a 155-yarder. Arnold's iron shot 
from 
the tee burrowed into the bunker guarding the green, an embankment 
that had become soft and spongy from the rains, thereby bringing local 
rules into force. 

#RULING FROM ON HIGH#

"I can remove the ball, 
can't I"? asked Palmer of an official.   "No", said 
the official. "You must play it where it lies".   "You're 
wrong", said Arnold, a man who knows the rules. "I'll do 
as you say, but I'll also play a provisional ball and get a 
ruling".

He scored a 4 for the embedded ball, a 3 with the provisional 
one. The golfing fathers ruled in his favor. So he picked up a stroke 
with the provisional ball and won the tournament by the margin of 
that stroke.   Until a few weeks ago, however, Arnold Palmer 
was some god-like creature who had nothing in common with the duffers. 
But after that 12 at Los Angeles he became one of the boys, a bigger 
hero than he ever had been before.

A formula to supply players for the new Minneapolis Vikings 
and 
the problem of increasing the 1961 schedule to fourteen games will 
be discussed by National Football League owners at a meeting at the 
Hotel Warwick today.   Other items on the agenda during the 
meetings, which are expected to continue through Saturday, concern television, 
rules changes, professional football's hall of fame, players' 
benefits and constitutional amendments.   The owners would 
like each club in the fourteen-team league to play a home-and-home series 
with teams in its division, plus two games against teams in the other 
division. However, this would require a lengthening of the season 
from thirteen to fourteen weeks.   Pete Rozelle, the league commissioner, 
pointed out:   "We'll have the problem of baseball 
at one end and weather at the other".   Nine of the league's 
teams play in baseball parks and therefore face an early-season 
conflict in dates.

If the Cardinals heed Manager Gene Mauch of the Phillies, 
they won't be misled by the Pirates' slower start this season.

"Pittsburgh definitely is the team to beat", Mauch said here 
the other day. "The Pirates showed they could outclass the field 
last year. They have the same men, no age problem, no injuries and 
they also have Vinegar Bend Mizell for the full season, along with 
Bobby Shantz".   Tonight at 8 o'clock the Cardinals, who 
gave the Pirates as much trouble as anyone did in 1960, breaking even 
with them, will get their first 1961 shot at baseball's world champions. 
The Pirates have a 9-6 record this year and the Redbirds are 
7-9. 

#CHANGE IN PITCHERS.#

Solly Hemus announced a switch in his 
starting pitcher, from Bob Gibson to Ernie Broglio, for several 
reasons: 1. Broglio's 4-0 won-lost record and 1.24 earned-run mark 
against Pittsburgh a year ago; 2. The desire to give Broglio as 
many starts as possible; 3. The Redbirds' disheartening 11-7 collapse 
against the Phillies Sunday.   Manager Hemus, eager to 
end a pitching slump that has brought four losses in the five games 
on the current home stand, moved Gibson to the Wednesday night starting 
assignment. After Thursday's open date, Solly plans to open with 
Larry Jackson against the Cubs here Friday night.   Harvey 
Haddix, set back by the flu this season, will start against his former 
Cardinal mates, who might be playing without captain Kenny Boyer 
in tonight's game at Busch Stadium. Boyer is suffering from a stiff 
neck.   Haddix has a 13-8 record against the Redbirds, despite 
only a 1-3 mark in 1960.   Pirate Manager Danny Murtaugh 
said he hadn't decided between Mizell and Vern Law for Wednesday's 
game. Mizell has won both of his starts. 

#NIEMAN KEPT IN LINEUP.# 

After a lengthy workout yesterday, an open date, Hemus said that 
Bob Nieman definitely would stay in the lineup. That means Stan 
Musial probably will ride the bench on the seventh anniversary of his 
record five-home run day against the Giants.   "I have to stay 
with Nieman for a while", Hemus said. "Bill White (sore ankles) 
should be ready. With a lefthander going for Pittsburgh, I may 
use Don Taussig in center".   "Lindy McDaniel threw batting 
practice about 25 minutes, and he looked good", Hemus said. "He 
should be getting back in the groove before long. Our pitching 
is much better than it has shown".   The statistics hardly indicated 
that the Pirates needed extra batting practice, but Murtaugh 
also turned his men loose at Busch Stadium yesterday. 

#SIX BUCKS OVER 
.300.#

Until the Bucs' bats quieted down a bit in Cincinnati 
over the weekend, the champions had eight men hitting over .300. Despite 
the recession, Pittsburgh came into town with this imposing list 
of averages: Smoky Burgess .455, Gino Cimoli .389, Bill Virdon 
.340, Bob Clemente and Dick Groat, each .323, Dick Stuart .306, 
Don Hoak .280 and Bob Skinner .267.   Bill Mazeroski with 
.179 and Hal Smith with .143 were the only Pirates dragging their 
feet.   Perhaps the Pirate who will be the unhappiest over the 
news that Musial probably will sit out most of the series is Bob Friend, 
who was beaten by The Man twice last season on dramatic home 
runs. Friend is off to a great start with a 4-0 record but isn't likely 
to see action here this week.   "We're getting Friend 
some runs for a change, and he has been pitching good", Murtaugh said. 
"Virdon has been blasting the ball. No plunkers for him". 

#SIX 
BUCS OVER .300.#

The Pirates jumped off to an 11-3 start by May 
1 last year, when the Redbirds as well as the Dodgers held them 
even over the season. On last May 1, the Cardinals stood at 7-6, ending 
a two-season fall-off on that milestone. In 1958, the Birds were 
3-10 on May 1. A year later they were 4-13.   Since 1949, the 
St& Louis club has been below .500 on May 1 just four times. The 
'49 team was off to a so-so 5-5 beginning, then fell as low as 12-17 
on May 23 before finishing with 96 victories.   The '52 Cards 
were 6-7 on May 1 but ended with 88 triumphs, the club's top 
since 
1949. Then last season the Birds tumbled as low as 11-18 on May 
19 before recovering to make a race of it and total 86 victories.

Since 1949, the only National League club that got off to a hot 
start and made a runaway of the race was the '55 Dodger team. Those 
Dodgers won their first 10 games and owned a 21-2 mark and a nine-game 
lead by May 8. The club that overcame the worst start in a comparable 
period to win the pennant was New York's '51 Giants, who 
dropped 11 of their first 13.

They honored the battling Billikens last night. Speakers at 
a Tipoff Club dinner dealt lavish praise to a group of St& Louis 
University players who, in the words of Coach John Benington, "had 
more confidence in themselves than I did".   The most valuable 
player award was split three ways, among Glen Mankowski, Gordon 
Hartweger and Tom Kieffer. In addition, a special award was given 
to Bob (Bevo) Nordmann, the 6-foot-10 center who missed much of 
the season because of a knee injury.   "You often hear people 
talk about team spirit and that sort of thing", Benington said in a 
conversation after the ceremonies, "but what this team had was a little 
different. The boys had a tremendous respect for each other's 
ability. They knew what they could do and it was often a little more 
than I thought they could do.

"Several times I found the players 
pepping me up, where it usually is the coach who is supposed to 
deliver the fight talk. We'd be losing at halftime to a good team 
and Hartweger would say, 'Don't worry, Coach- we'll get 'em 
all right'".   The trio who shared the most-valuable honors 
were introduced by Bob Broeg, sports editor of the Post-Dispatch.

Kieffer, the only junior in the group, was commended for his 
ability to hit in the clutch, as well as his all-round excellent play.

Mankowski, the ball-hawking defensive expert, was cited for 
his performance against Bradley in St& Louis U&'s nationally 
televised victory. Benington said, "I've never seen a player 
have a game as great as Mankowski did against Bradley that day".

Benington recalled that he once told Hartweger that he doubted 
Gordon would ever play much for him because he seemed to be lacking 
in all of the accepted basketball skills. After the coach listed all 
the boy's faults, Hartweger said, "Coach before I leave here, 
you'll get to like me".   Mrs& Benington admired Gordon's 
spirit and did what she could to persuade her husband that the boy 
might help the team.   As Hartweger accepted his silver bowl, 
he said, "I want to thank coach's wife for talking him into letting 
me play".   Bob Burnes, sports editor of the Globe-Democrat, 
presented Bob Nordmann with his award. Bevo was congratulated for 
his efforts to stay in shape so that he could help the team if his 
knee healed in time. Within a week after the injury, suffered in St& 
Louis's victory in the final game of the Kentucky tournament, Nordmann 
was sitting on the Bill's bench doing what he could to help 
Benington.   On the clock given him was the inscription, "For 
Outstanding Contribution to Billiken Basketball, 1960-61".

Other lettermen from the team that compiled a 21-9 record and finished 
as runner-up in the National Invitation Tournament were: 
Art Hambric, Donnell Reid, Bill Nordmann, Dave Harris, Dave Luechtefeld 
and George Latinovich.   "This team set a precedent 
that could be valuable in the future", Benington pointed out. "By 
winning against Bradley, Kentucky and Notre Dame on those teams' 
home courts, they showed that the home court advantage can be overcome 
anywhere and that it doesn's take a super team to do it".

St& Louis University found a way to win a baseball game. Larry 
Scherer last night pitched a no-hit game, said to be the first 
in Billiken baseball history, as the Blue and White beat Southeast 
Missouri State College, 5-1, at Crystal City.   The victory 
was the first of the season for the Billikens after nine defeats and 
a tie. The tie was against Southeast Missouri last Friday. 
Scherer also had a big night at bat with four hits in five trips including 
a double, Len Boehmer also was 4-for-5 with two doubles and Dave 
Ritchie had a home run and a triple.   St& Louis U& 
was to be in action again today with a game scheduled at 4 against Washington 
University at Ligget Field.   The game opened a busy 
week for Washington. The Bears are set to play at Harris Teachers 
College at 3:30 tomorrow and have a doubleheader at Quincy, Ill&, 
Saturday. 

#HAPPY HITTING#

If it's true that contented cows give more milk, 
why shouldn't happy ball players produce more base hits? 
The two top talents of the time, Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays, 
have 
hit the ball harder and more successfully so far this early season 
than at any period in careers which, to be frank about it, never have 
quite reached expectations.   And that's meant as a boost, not 
a knock.   Mays and Mantle, both 10-year men at 30, have so 
much ability that, baseball men agree, they've never hit the heights. 
Their heights, that is.   Mantle, the bull-necked blond switch-hitter, 
had one sensational triple-crown season, 1959, when he batted 
.365 and also led the American League in home runs, 52, and ~RBIs, 
130.   Like the Yankees' slugger, Mays, the terror of 
the Giants, has had seasons that would be considered the ultimate by 
most players, but not by- or for- Willie. His best years were 1954 
when he hit .345 with 41 homers and '55 when he belted 51 home runs, 
drove in 127 and stole 24 bases.   Now, apparently happier 
under new managers, Mays and Mantle, the perfect players, are behaving 
as though they're going to pass those previous peaks. 

#LABOR RELATIONS# 

Yes, we know, they're professionals, men paid to play, and 
they shouldn't care how they're handled, just as long as their 
names are spelled correctly on the first and fifteenth of each month.

The truth is, though, that men react differently to different 
treatment. For that matter, Stan Musial is rare, possessing the disposition 
that enabled him to put out the same for seven managers, reserving 
his opinions, but not 
his effort.   Mantle, it's apparent, 
resented Casey Stengel's attempts to push and prod him into the 
perfection the veteran manager saw as a thrilling possibility. The old 
man was almost too possessive. Stengel inherited DiMaggio, Rizzuto, 
but HE brought up Mantle from Class ~C to the majors, from 
Joplin to New York.   With the speed and power of the body 
beautiful he saw before him, Ol' Case wanted No& 7 to be not 
only the best homerun hitter, but also the best bunter, base-runner and 
outfielder. Stengel probably preached too much in the early days when 
the kid wanted to pop his bubble gum and sow his oats.   Inheriting 
a more mature Mantle, who now has seen the sights on and off Broadway, 
Ralph Houk quietly bestowed, no pun intended, the mantle of 
authority on Mickey. The Major decided that, rather than be led, 
the slugger could lead. And what leadership a proud Mantle has given 
so far.   The opinion continues here that with a 162-game schedule, 
pitching spread thin through a 10-team league and a most inviting 
target in Los Angeles' Wrigley Field Jr&, Mantle just might 
break the most glamorous record on the books, Babe Ruth's 60 homers 
of 1927. 

#FOUR FOR ALVIN#

Mays' day came a day earlier for 
Willie than for the kids and Commies this year. Willie's wonderful 
walloping Sunday- four home runs- served merely to emphasize how 
happy he is to be playing for Alvin Dark.   Next to Leo Durocher, 
Dark taught Mays the most when he was a grass-green rookie rushed 
up to the Polo Grounds 10 years ago this month, to help the Giants 
win a dramatic pennant.

ROMANTIC news concerns Mrs& Joan Monroe Armour and 
F& Lee H& Wendell, who are to be married at 4:30 p& m& tomorrow 
in the Lake Forest home of her brother, J& Hampton Monroe, 
and Mrs& Monroe. Only the families and a dozen close friends 
will be present.   The bride's brother, Walter D& Monroe 
Jr&, will give her in marriage. In the small group will be the junior 
and senior Mrs& Walter Monroe; the bridegroom's parents, 
the Barrett Wendells, who are returning from a winter holiday in Sarasota, 
Fla&, for the occasion; and his brother, Mr& Wendell 
Jr&, and his wife, who will arrive from Boston. Mr& Wendell Jr& 
will be best man.   Also present will be the bride's children, 
Joan, 13, and Kirkland, 11. Their father is Charles B& Armour. 
The bridegroom's children were here for the Christmas holidays 
and can't return. Young Peter Wendell, a student at the Westminster 
school, has measles, and his sister, Mrs& Andrew Thomas, 
and her husband, who live in Missoula, Mont&, have a new baby. Their 
mother is Mrs& Camilla Alsop Wendell.   Mr& Wendell 
and his bride will live in his Lake Forest house. They will take a 
wedding trip later. #'BACK WITH THE MET'#

"We are back with 
the 'Met' again now that the 'Met' is back in 
Chicago", 
bulletins Mrs& Frank S& Sims, president of the women's board 
of the University of Chicago Cancer Research Foundation. The New 
York Metropolitan Opera Company will be here in May, and the board 
will sponsor the Saturday night, May 13, performance of "Turandot" 
as a benefit. Birgit Nilsson will be starred.   "Housed 
in the new McCormick Place theater, this should prove to be an 
exciting evening", adds Mrs& Sims. The board's last money raising 
event was a performance by Harry Belafonte- "quite off-beat 
for this group", decided some of the members. Mrs& Henry T& 
Sulcer of Winnetka, a new board member, will be chairman of publicity 
for the benefit. Her husband recently was appointed vice president 
of the university, bringing them back here from the east. 

#PARICHY-HAMM# 

Because of the recent death of the bride's father, Frederick 
B& Hamm, the marriage of Miss Terry Hamm to John Bruce Parichy 
will be a small one at noon tomorrow in St& Bernadine's church, 
Forest Park. A small reception will follow in the Oak Park Arms 
hotel.   Mrs& Hamm will not come from Vero Beach, Fla&, 
for the wedding. However, Mr& Parichy and his bride will go 
to Vero Beach on their wedding trip, and will stay in the John G& 
Beadles' beach house. The Beadles formerly lived in Lake Forest.

Harvey B& Stevens of Kenilworth will give his niece in 
marriage. Mr& and Mrs& Stevens and the bride's other uncles 
and aunts, the Rush C& Butlers, the Homer E& Robertsons, and 
the David Q& Porters, will give the bridal dinner tonight in the 
Stevenses' home. 

#HERE AND THERE#

The Chicago Press club will 
fete George E& Barnes, president of the United States Lawn 
Tennis association, at a cocktail party and buffet supper beginning 
at 5:30 p& m& tomorrow. Later, a bus will carry members to the 
Chicago Stadium to see Jack Kramer's professional tennis matches 
at 8 p& m&.

WITH loud huzzahs for the artistic success of the Presbyterian-St& 
Luke's Fashion show still ringing in her ears, its director, 
Helen Tieken Geraghty [Mrs& Maurice P& Geraghty] 
is taking off tomorrow on a 56 day world trip which should earn her even 
greater acclaim as director of entertainment for next summer's International 
Trade fair. Armed with letters from embassies to ministers 
of countries, especially those in the near and far east, Mrs& 
Geraghty "will beat the bushes for oriental talent".   "We 
[the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry] expect to establish 
closer relations with nations and their cultural activities, 
and it will be easy as a member of the fair staff to bring in acts", 
explains Mrs& Geraghty. "For instance, Djakarta, Indonesia, 
has three groups of dancers interested in coming here. I'm even going 
to try to get the whirling dervishes of Damascus"!   The 
last obstacle in Mrs& Geraghty's globe-girdling trip was smoothed 
out when a representative of Syria called upon her to explain that 
his brother would meet her at the border of that country- so newly 
separated from Egypt and the United Arab Republic that she hadn't 
been able to obtain a visa. 

#FIRST, HONOLULU#

Honolulu will be 
Mrs& Geraghty's first stop. Then Japan, Hong Kong, Manila, 
India, Pakistan, Damascus, Beirut, and to Rome, London, and Paris 
"to look over wonderful talent".   Dec& 22 is the deadline 
for Mrs& Geraghty's return; the Geraghtys' youngest daughter, 
Molly, bows in the Passavant Debutante Cotillion the next 
night. Molly already has her cotillion gown, and it's fitted, says 
her mother. Also, invitations have been addressed to Molly's debut 
tea the afternoon of Dec& 29 in the Arts club.   It won't 
be a "tea", however, but more of an international folk song festival, 
with singers from Chicago's foreign groups to sing Christmas 
songs from around the world. The international theme will be continued 
with the Balkan strings playing for a dinner the Byron Harveys will 
give in the Racquet club after the tea. Miss Abra Prentice's 
debut supper dance in the Casino will wind up the day. 

#BURKE-ROSTAGNO# 

The Richard S& Burkes' home in Wayne may be the setting 
for the wedding reception for their daughter, Helen Lambert, and the 
young Italian she met last year while studying in Florence during 
her junior year at Smith college. He is Aldo Rostagno, son of the 
Guglielmo Rostagnos of Florence whom the Burkes met last year in 
Europe. The Burkes, who now live in Kankakee, are telling friends 
of the engagement.   Miss Burke, a graduate of Miss Hall's 
school, stayed on in Florence as a career girl. Her fiance, who is with 
a publishing firm, translates many books from English into Italian. 
He will be coming here on business in December, when the wedding 
is to take place in Wayne. Miss Burke will arrive in December also. 

#HERE AND THERE#

A farewell supper Mr& and Mrs& Charles 
H& Sethness Jr& planned Sunday for Italian Consul General 
and Mrs& Giacomo Profili has been canceled because Mr& Sethness 
is in Illinois Masonic hospital for surgery.   Mrs& William 
Odell, Mrs& Clinton B& King, John Holabird Jr&, Norman 
Boothby, and Actress Maureen O'Sullivan will judge the costumes 
in the grand march at the Affaire Old Towne Bal Masque tomorrow 
in the Germania club. The party is to raise money for the Old Town 
Art center and to plant more crabapple trees along the streets of 
Old Town.

LYON AROUND: Columnist Walter Winchell, well and 
rat-a-tat-tatty 
again, wheeled thru town between trains yesterday en route 
to his Phoenix, Ariz&, rancho, portable typewriter in hand. If W& 
W&'s retiring soon, as hinted, he ain't talking- yet. **h 
Pretty Sunny Ainsworth, the ex-Mrs& Tommy Manville and the 
ex-Mrs& Bud Arvey, joined Playboy-Show-Biz Illustrated, as a 
promotional copy writer. She's a whiz. **h You can get into an argument 
about fallout shelters at the drop of a beer stein in clubs and 
pubs these nights. Everybody has a different idea on the ethics and morals 
of driving away neighbors, when and if. **h Comic Gary Morton 
signed to play the Living Room here Dec& 18, because that's the 
only time his heart, Lucille Ball, can come along. And watch for 
a headline from this pair any time now. ##

{The Living Room has 
another scoop: Jane Russell will make one of her rare night club 
singing appearances there, opening Jan& 22. La Russell's run 
in "Skylark", debuting next week at Drury Lane, already is a sellout. 
**h Johnny Ray, at the same L& R&, has something to 
cry 
about. He's been warbling in severe pain; a medico's injection 
inflamed a nerve, and Johnny can barely walk. **h Charley Simonelli, 
top Universal-International 
film studio exec, makes an honest man out 
of this column. As we bulletin'd way back, he'll wed pretty Rosemary 
Strafaci, of the Golf Mag staff, in N& Y& C& today. 
Handsome bachelor Charley was a favorite date of many of Hollywood's 
glamor gals for years}. @ 
##

GEORGE SIMON, exec director 
of Danny Thomas A& L& S& A& C& [Aiding Leukemia 
Stricken American Children] fund raising group, filled me in on the 
low-down phonies who are using phones to solicit funds for Danny's 
St& Jude hospital in Memphis. There is no such thing as an "emergency 
telephone building fund drive". The only current event they're 
staging is the big show at the Stadium Nov& 25, when Danny 
will entertain thousands of underprivileged kids. You can mail contribs 
to Danny Thomas, Post Office Box 7599, Chicago. So, if anybody 
solicits by phone, make sure you mail the dough to the above. **h 
Olivia De Havilland signed to do a Broadway play for Garson Kanin 
this season, "A Gift of Time". She'll move to Gotham after 
years in Paris. ##

{Gorgeous Doris Day and her producer-hubby, 
Marty Melcher, drive in today from a motor tour thru New England. 
D& D& will pop up with ~U-~I Chief Milt Rackmil 
at the Carnegie theater tomorrow to toast 300 movie exhibitors. It'll 
be an all day affair with screenings of Doris' new one, "Lover 
Come Back", and "Flower Drum Song". **h Whee the People: 
Lovely Thrush Annamorena gave up a promising show biz career to 
apply glamor touches to her hubby, Ray Lenobel's fur firm here. 
Typical touch: She sold a $10,000 morning light mink to Sportsman 
Freddie Wacker for his frau, 
Jana Mason, also an ex-singer. In honor 
of the Wackers' new baby. Fur goodness sake!} @ ## 

EMCEE 
Jack Herbert insists Dick Nixon's campaign slogan for governor 
of California is, "Knight Must Fall"! **h Give generously 
when you buy candy today for the Brain Research Foundation. It's 
one of our town's worthiest charities. **h Best Bet for Tonight: 
That darlin' dazzler from Paree, Genevieve, opening in the 
Empire room. **h Dave Trager, who is quite a showman and boss of Chicago's 
new pro basketball Packers, is debuting a new International 
club, for the exclusive use of season ticket holders, in the Stock 
Yards Inn. Jump off is tomorrow night when the Packs meet St& 
Louis in their season home opener. **h Nobody's mentioned it, but 
when ol' Casey Stengel takes over as boss of the New York Mets, 
he'll be the only baseballight ever to wear the uniform of all New 
York area clubs, past and present: Yankees, Dodgers, Giants, and 
now the Mets. **h And Bernie Kriss calls the bayonet clashes at 
Berlin's Brandenburg Gate, "The Battle of the Sentry"! 
##

THE JOTTED LYON: This mad world dept&: Khrush and 
the Kremlin crowd are confident all right. They're contaminating 
the earth's atmosphere including their own via mighty megaton bombs 
but their own peasants still don't know about it! **h More: On 
the free world side. Albert John Luthuli, awarded a Nobel prize 
for his South African integration struggles, has to get permission to 
fly to collect his honor. Hmpf **h But on to the frothier side **h 
Johnny Weissmuller, the only real Tarzan, telephoned Maureen O'Sullivan, 
his first "Jane" [now at Drury Lane, and muttered, 
"Me Tarzan, this Jane"? Snapped Maureen, "Me Jane"! 
**h Actually Johnny is a glib, garrulous guy, with a rare sense of 
humor. Everywhere he went in town, people sidled up, gave him the guttural 
bit or broke into a frightening Tarzan yodel. He kids his Tarzan 
roles more than anyone. ##

{"La Dolce Vita", the dynamite 
Italian flicker, opens at popular prices at the Loop theater 
Nov& 2. My idea of masterful movie making. **h Bill Veeck's health 
is back to the dynamo stage, but his medics insist he rest for several 
more months before getting back into the baseball swim. William 
keeps up with our town's doings daily, via the Tribune, and he tells 
me he never misses the Ticker. That's our boy Bill. **h Jean 
Fardulli's Blue Angel is the first top local club to import that 
crazy new dance, the Twist. They'll start lessons, too, pronto. **h 
A cheer here for Francis Lorenz, state treasurer, who will meet 
with the probate advisory board of the Chicago Bar association, for 
suggestions on how to handle the opening of safety deposit boxes after 
somebody dies.

After being closed for seven months, the Garden of the Gods 
Club will have its gala summer opening Saturday, June 3.   Music 
for dancing will be furnished by {Allen Uhles} and his orchestra, 
who will play each Saturday during June.   Members and guests 
will be in for an added surprise with the new wing containing 40 
rooms and suites, each with its own private patio.   {Gene 
Marshall}, genial manager of the club, has announced that the Garden 
of the Gods will open to members Thursday, June 1.   Beginning 
July 4, there will be an orchestra playing nightly except Sunday 
and Monday for the summer season.   {Mrs& J& Edward Hackstaff} 
and {Mrs& Paul Luette} are planning a luncheon next 
week in honor of {Mrs& J& Clinton Bowman}, who celebrates 
her birthday on Tuesday.   {Mr& and Mrs& Jerry Chase} 
announce the birth of a daughter, {Sheila}, on Wednesday in 
Mercy Hospital.   Grandparents are {Mr& and Mrs& Robert 
L& Chase} and {Mr& and Mrs& Guy Mullenax} of Kittredge.

Mrs& Chase is the former {Miss Mary Mullenax}. 

#BACK TO W& COAST#

{Mrs& McIntosh Buell} will 
leave 
Sunday to return to her home in Santa Barbara, Calif&, after spending 
a week in her Polo Grounds home.   {Mrs& John C& 
Vroman Jr}& of Manzanola is spending several days in her Sherman 
Plaza apartment.   {Mr& and Mrs& Merrill Shoup} 
have returned to their home in Colorado Springs after spending a few 
days at the Brown Palace Hotel.   {Brig& Gen& and 
Mrs& Robert F& McDermott} will entertain at a black tie dinner 
Wednesday, May 3, in the Officers' Club at the Air Force 
Academy. 

#COCKTAIL PARTY#

{Mr& and Mrs& Piero de Luise} 
will honor Italian {Consul and Mrs& Emilio Bassi} at a 
cocktail party Tuesday, May 2, from 6 to 8 p&m& in their home. The 
Bassis are leaving soon for their new post.   There will be 
a stag dinner Friday evening at the Denver Country Club which will 
precede the opening of the 1961 golf season.   Cocktails will 
be served from 6 to 7 p&m&, with dinner at 7 and entertainment in 
the main dining room immediately following.   {Miss Betsy Parker} 
was one of the speakers on the panel of the Eastern Women's 
Liberal Arts College panel on Wednesday evening in the Security 
Life Bldg&.   Guests were juniors in the public high schools. 

#FASHION SHOW#

The committee for the annual Central City fashion 
show has been announced by {Mrs& D& W& Moore}, chairman.

The event, staged yearly by Neusteters, will be held in 
the Opera House Wednesday, Aug& 16. It will be preceded by luncheon 
in the Teter House.   {Mrs& Roger Mead} is head 
of the luncheon table decorations {Mrs& Stanley Wright} is 
ticket chairman and {Mrs& Theodore Pate} is in charge of publicity.

Members of the committee include {Mrs& Milton Bernet, 
Mrs& J& Clinton Bowman, Mrs& Rollie W& Bradford, 
Mrs& Samuel Butler Jr&, Mrs& Donald Carr Campbell, Mrs& 
Douglas Carruthers, Mrs& John C& Davis /3,, Mrs& 
Cris Dobbins, Mrs& William E& Glass, Mrs& Alfred Hicks 
/2,, Mrs& Donald Magarrell, Mrs& Willett Moore, Mrs& Myron 
Neusteter, Mrs& Richard Gibson Smith, Mrs& James S& 
Sudier /2,} and {Mrs& Thomas Welborn}.   The first 
committee meeting will be held on May 19.   {Mr& and Mrs& 
Andrew S& Kelsey} of Washington, D&C&, announce the birth 
of a daughter, {Kira Ann Kelsey}, on Monday in Washington, 
D&C&.   Grandparents are {Mr& and Mrs& R&L& 
Rickenbaugh} and {Mr& and Mrs& E&O& Kelsey} of 
Scarsdale, N&Y&.   Mrs& Kelsey is the former {Miss 
Ann Rickenbaugh}.

A cheery smile, a compassionate interest in others and a practical 
down-to-earth approach.   Those qualities make {Esther Marr} 
a popular asset at the Salvation Army's Social 
Center at 1200 Larimer st&.   The pert, gray-haired woman 
who came to Denver three years ago from Buffalo, N&Y&, is 
a "civilian" with the Army.   Her position covers a number 
of daily tasks common to any social director. The job also covers a 
number of other items.   "Mom" Marr, as the more than 80 men 
at the center call her, 
is the link that helps to bridge the gulf between 
alcoholics and the outside world and between parolees and society.

Her day starts early, but no matter how many pressing letters 
there are to be written (and during May, which is National Salvation 
Army Week, there are plenty), schedules to be made or problems 
to be solved, Mrs& Marr's office is always open and the welcome 
mat is out.   {MRS& MARR} is the first contact a Skid 
Row 
figure talks to after he decides he wants to pick himself up.

She sees that there is a cup of steaming hot coffee awaiting him and 
the two chat informally as she presents the rules of the center and 
explains procedures.   "Usually at this point a man is withdrawn 
from society and one of my jobs is to see that he relearns to mingle 
with his fellow men", Mrs& Marr explained.   The Denverite 
has worked out an entire program to achieve this using the facilities 
of the center.   "And I bum tickets to everything I can", 
she said. "I've become the greatest beggar in the world".

{IN ADDITION} 
to the tickets to the movies, sporting events 
and concerts, Mrs& Marr lines up candy and cookies because alcoholics 
require a lot of sweets to replace the sugar in their system.

Mrs& Marr also has a number of parolees to "mother", watching 
to see that they do not break their parole and that they also learn 
to readjust to society.

By mid-June, millions of Americans will take to the road on 
vacation trips up and down and back and forth across this vast and lovely 
land.   In another four weeks, with schools closed across the 
nation, the great all-American summer safari will be under way. By 
July 1, six weeks from now, motel-keepers all over the nation will, 
by 6 p&m&, be switching on that bleak- to motorists- sign, "No 
Vacancy".   No matter how many Americans go abroad in 
summer, probably a hundred times as many gas up the family car, throw 
suitcases, kids and comic books in the back seat, and head for home. And 
where is "home", that magic place of the heart?   Ah, 
that is simple. Home is where a man was born, reared, went to school 
and, most particularly, where grandma is. That is where we turn in the 
good old summertime.   The land lies ready for the coming onslaught. 
My husband and I, a month ahead of the rush, have just finished 
a 7-day motor journey of 2809 miles from Tucson, Ariz&, to New 
York City: 

#SET FOR INFLUX#

I can testify that motels, service 
and comfort stations (they go together like Scots and heather), dog 
wagons, roadside restaurants, souvenir stands and snake farms are braced 
and waiting.   I hope it can be said without boasting that 
no other nation offers its vacationing motorists such variety and beauty 
of scene, such an excellent network of roads on which to enjoy it and 
such decent, far-flung over-night accommodations.   Maybe motel-keeping 
isn't the nation's biggest industry, but it certainly looks 
that way from the highway.   There are motels for all purposes 
and all tastes. There are even motels for local weather peculiarities, 
as I discovered in Shamrock, Tex&. There the Royal Motel 
advertises "all facilities, vented heat, air conditioned, carpeted, 
free ~TV, storm cellar". 

#MANY WITH POOLS#

Innumerable motels 
from Tucson to New York boast swimming pools ("swim at your 
own risk" is the hospitable sign poised at the brink of most pools). 
Some even boast two pools, one for adults and one for children. But 
the Royal Motel in Shamrock was the only one that offered the comfort 
and security of a storm cellar.   Motorists like myself who 
can remember the old "tourists accommodated" signs on farm houses 
and village homes before World War /2, can only marvel at the great 
size and the luxury of the relatively new and fast-grossing motel business. 

#ALL FOR $14!#

At the Boxwood Motel in Winchester, 
Va&, we accidentally drew the honeymoon suite, an elegant affair with 
wall-to-wall carpeting, gold and white furniture, pink satin brocade 
chairs, 24-inch ~TV and a pink tile bath with masses of pink towels. 
All for $14.   That made up for the "best" motel in Norman, 
Okla&, where the proprietor knocked $2 off the $8.50 tab when 
we found ants in the pressed-paper furniture.

Oxnard, Calif&, will be the home of the Rev& Robert D& 
Howard and his bride, the former Miss Judith Ellen Gay, who were 
married Saturday at the Munger Place Methodist Church. 
Parents of the bride are Mr& and Mrs& Ferris M& Gay, 7034 
Coronado. The bridegroom is the son of Mrs& James Baines of Los 
Angeles, Calif&, and Carl E& Howard of Santa Monica, Calif&. 
He is a graduate of ~UCLA and Perkins School of Theology, 
~SMU.   Dr& W& B& I& Martin officiated, and 
the bride was given in marriage by her father. Honor attendants for 
the couple were Miss Sandra Branum and Warren V& McRoberts.

The couple will honeymoon in Sequoia National Park, Calif&.

Miss Joan Frances Baker, a graduate of ~SMU, was married 
Saturday to Elvis Leonard Mason, an honor graduate of Lamar State 
College of Technology, in the chapel of the First Presbyterian 
Church of Houston.   The bride, daughter of Rhodes Semmes 
Baker Jr& of Houston and the late Mrs& Baker, was president of 
Kappa Kappa Gamma and a member of Mortar Board at ~SMU. Her 
husband, who is the son of Alton John Mason of Shreveport, La&, 
and the late Mrs& Henry Cater Parmer, was president of Alpha 
Tau Omega and a member of Delta Sigma Pi at Lamar Tech, and did 
graduate work at Rhodes University in Grahamstown, South Africa, 
on a Rotary Fellowship.   The Rev& Richard Freeman of 
Texas City officiated and Charles Pabor and Mrs& Marvin Hand 
presented music. The bride was given in marriage by her father.

She wore a court-length gown of organdy designed with bateau neckline 
and princesse skirt accented by lace appliques. Her veil was caught 
to a crown, and she carried gardenias and stephanotis.   Miss 
Mary Ross of Baird was maid of honor, and bridesmaids were Miss Pat 
Dawson of Austin, Mrs& Howard M& Dean of Hinsdale, Ill&, 
and Mrs& James A& Reeder of Shreveport, La&.   Cecil 
Mason of Hartford, Conn&, was best man for his brother, and 
groomsmen were Rhodes S& Baker /3, of Houston, Dr& James 
Carter of Houston and Conrad McEachern of New Orleans, La&. 
Lee Jackson and Ken Smith, both of Houston, and Alfred Neumann 
of Beaumont seated guests.   After a reception at The Mayfair, 
the newlyweds left for a wedding trip to New Orleans, La&. They 
will live in Corpus Christi.

Miss Shirley Joan Meredith, a former student of North Texas 
State University, was married Saturday to Larry W& Mills, who 
has attended Arlington State College. They will live at 2705 Fitzhugh 
after a wedding trip to Corpus Christi.   Parents of the 
couple are Ray Meredith of Denton and the late Mrs& Meredith 
and Mrs& Hardy P& Mills of Floresville and the late Mr& Mills.

The Rev& Melvin Carter officiated at the ceremony 
in Slaughter Chapel of the First Baptist Church. Dan Beam presented 
music and the bride was given in marriage by her father. 
She wore a gown of satin designed along princesse lines and featuring 
a flared skirt and lace jacket with bateau neckline. Her veil was 
caught to a pearl headdress, and she carried stephanotis and orchids.

Miss Glenda Kay Meredith of Denton was her sister's maid 
or honor, and Vernon Lewelleyn of San Angelo was best man. Robert 
Lovelace and Cedric Burgher Jr& seated guests. A reception was 
held at the church.

The First Christian Church of Pampa was the setting for the 
wedding last Sunday of Miss Marcile Marie Glison and Thomas Earl 
Loving Jr&, who will live at 8861 Gaston after a wedding trip 
to New Orleans, La&   The bride, daughter of Mr& and Mrs& 
Charles Ervin Glison of Pampa, has attended Texas Woman's 
University and will continue her studies at ~SMU.

"A Night in New Orleans" is the gayety planned by members 
of the Thrift Shop Committee for May 6 at Philmont Country Club. 
The women have a reputation for giving parties that are different 
and are fun and this year's promises to follow in this fine tradition. 
Mrs& H& J& Grinsfelder is chairman.   The Louisiana 
city is known, of course, for its fine food, good music and its colorful 
hospitality "and, 
when guests arrive at Philmont that night", 
says Mrs& Grinsfelder, "that is exactly what we expect to offer 
them. We've been working for weeks. The prospects look great. 
We are keeping a number of surprises under our hats. But we can't 
tell it all now and then have no new excitement later". 

#BASIN STREET 
BEAT#

But she does indicate festivities will start early, that 
a jazz combo will "give with the Basin Street beat" during the 
cocktail and dinner hours and that Lester Lanin's orchestra will take 
over during the dancing.   As for food, Mrs& Henry Louchheim, 
chairman of this phase, 
is a globetrotter who knows good food. "New 
Orleans"? she says, "of course I've had the best. It 
is just bad luck that we are having the party in a month with no ~R's, 
so no oysters. But we have lots of other New Orleans specialties. 
I know they will be good. We've tried them out on the club chef- 
or say, he has tried them out on us and we have selected the best". 

#SCENIC EFFECTS#

Guests will be treated to Gulf Coast scenic 
effects. There will be masses of flowers, reproductions of the 
handsome old buildings with their grillwork and other things that are 
typical of New Orleans. Mrs& Harry K& Cohen is chairman of this 
phase and she is getting an artistic assist from A& Van Hollander, 
display director of Gimbel Brothers.   The gala is the Thrift 
Shop's annual bundle party and, as all Thrift Shop friends 
know, that means the admission is a bundle of used clothing in good condition, 
contributions of household equipment, bric-a-brac and such to 
stock the shelves at the shop's headquarters at 1213 Walnut St&. 

#BUNDLE CENTERS#

For the convenience of guests bundle centers 
have been established throughout the city and suburbs where the donations 
may be deposited between now and the date of the big event. In addition 
to the bundles, guests pay the cost of their dinners. Members 
of the young set who would like to come to the party only during the dancing 
time are welcomed.   The Thrift Shop, with Mrs& Bernhard 
S& Blumenthal as president, is one of the city's most successful 
fund-raisers for the Federation of Jewish Agencies. Some idea 
of the competence of the women is indicated in the contribution made 
by them during the past 25 years that totals $840,000. 

#IT'S BIG 
BUSINESS#

"Big business, this little Thrift Shop business", 
say the members. For most of the 25 years the operation was under feminine 
direction. In the past few years the men, mostly husbands of members, 
have taken an interest. Louis Glazer is chairman of the men's 
committee that, among other jobs, takes over part of the responsibility 
for staffing the shop during its evening hours.   Mrs& Theodore 
Kapnek is vice chairman of the committee for the gala. Mrs& 
Richard Newburger is chairman of hostesses.   Mrs& Arthur 
Loeb is making arrangements for a reception; Mrs& Joan Lichtenstein, 
for publicity; Mrs& Harry M& Rose, Jr&, for secretarial 
duties; Mrs& Ralph Taussig, for junior aides; Mr& and 
Mrs& B& Lewis Kaufnabb, for senior aides, and Mrs& Samuel 
P& Weinberg, for the bundles.   In addition, Mr& and Mrs& 
Allan Goodman are controllers, Mrs& Paul Stone is treasurer 
and Mrs& Albert Quell is in charge of admittance for the dancing 
at 9 P& M&.   Besides the bundle centers where contributions 
may be made there will be facilities at Philmont Country Club 
for those who would like to bring the bundles on the night of the party.

The women's committee of St& David's Church will hold 
its annual pre-Fair pink parade, a dessert bridge and fashion show at 
1 P& M& on Monday, April 17, in the chapel assembly room, Wayne.

Mrs& Robert O& Spurdle is chairman of the committee, 
which includes Mrs& James A& Moody, Mrs& Frank C& Wilkinson, 
Mrs& Ethel Coles, Mrs& Harold G& Lacy, Mrs& 
Albert W& Terry, Mrs& Henry M& Chance, 2d, Mrs& Robert 
O& Spurdle, Jr&, Mrs& Harcourt N& Trimble, Jr&, Mrs& 
John A& Moller, Mrs& Robert Zeising, Mrs& William 
G& Kilhour, Mrs& Hughes Cauffman, Mrs& John L& Baringer 
and Mrs& Clyde Newman.   The fashion show, by Natalie 
Collett will have Mrs& John Newbold as commentator. Models will 
be Mrs& Samuel B& D& Baird, Mrs& William H& Meyle, 
Jr&, Mrs& Richard W& Hole, Mrs& William F& Harrity, 
Mrs& Robert O& Spurdle, Mrs& E& H& Kloman, Mrs& 
Robert W& Wolcott, Jr&, 
Mrs& Frederick C& Wheeler, Jr&, 
Mrs& William ~A Boyd, ~Mrs F& Vernon Putt.

Col& Clifton Lisle, of Chester Springs, who headed the Troop 
Committee for much of its second and third decades, is now an honorary 
member. Each year he invites the boys to camp out on his estate 
for one of their big week ends of the year.   The Troop is proud 
of its camping-out program- on year-round schedule and was continued 
even when sub-zero temperatures were registered during the past 
winter.   "We worry", say the mothers. "But there never is 
any need. The boys love it".   Mrs& John Charles Cotty 
is chairman of publicity for the country fair and Mrs& Francis G& 
Felske and Mrs& Francis Smythe, of posters. They all are of 
Wayne.

"Meet the Artist" is the invitation issued by members of 
the Greater Philadelphia Section of the National Council of Jewish 
Women as they arrange for an annual exhibit and sale of paintings 
and sculpture at the Philmont Country Club on April 8 and 9.

A preview party for sponsors of the event and for the artists is set 
for April 8. The event will be open to the public the following day. 
Proceeds will be used by the section to further its program in science, 
education and social action on local, national and international 
levels. 

#NOTED ARTIST#

Mrs& Monte Tyson, chairman, says the 
work of 100 artists well known in the Delaware Valley area will be 
included in the exhibition and sale. Among them will be Marc Shoettle, 
Ben Shahn, Nicholas Marsicano, Alfred Van Loen and Milton 
Avery. Mr& Shoettle has agreed to do a portrait of the family of 
the person who wins the door prize.   The event is the sixth on 
the annual calendar of the local members of the National Council of 
Jewish Women. It originated with the Wissahickon Section. When this 
and other units combined to form the present group, it was taken on 
as a continuing fund-raiser. 

#OTHERS ASSISTING#

Mrs& Jerome 
Blum and Mrs& Meyer Schultz are co-chairmen this year. Assisting 
as chairmen of various committees are Mrs& Alvin Blum, Mrs& 
Leonard Malmud, Mrs& Edward Fernberger, Mrs& Robert Cushman.

Also Mrs& Berton Korman, Mrs& Morton Rosen, Mrs& Jacques 
Zinman, Mrs& Evelyn Rosen, Mrs& Henry Schultz, Mr& and 
Mrs& I& S& Kamens, Mrs& Jack Langsdorf, Mrs& Leonard 
Liss, Mrs& Gordon Blumberg, Mrs& Oscar Bregman, Mrs& 
Alfred Kershbaum and Mrs& Edward Sabol.

Dr& and Mrs& N& Volney Ludwick have had as guests Mr& 
and Mrs& John J& Evans, Jr&, of "Kimbolton House", 
Rockhall, Md&.   Mrs& Edward App will entertain the 
members of her Book Club on Tuesday.   Mrs& A& Voorhees 
Anderson entertained at a luncheon at her home, on Monday. Mr& and 
Mrs& Anderson were entertained at dinner on Sunday by Mr& and 
Mrs& Frank Coulson, of Fairless Hills.   Mr& and Mrs& 
Major Morris and their son-in-law and daughter, Mr& and Mrs& 
Thomas Glennon, and their children will spend several days in Brigantine, 
N& J&.   Mr& and Mrs& James Janssen announce 
the birth of a daughter, Patricia Lynn Janssen, on March 2.

Mr& and Mrs& Charles Marella announce the engagement of 
their daughter, Miss Mary Ann Marella, to Mr& Robert L& Orcutt, 
son of Mr& and Mrs& Donald R& Orcutt, of Drexel Hill.

Miss Eileen Grant is spending several weeks visiting in Florida.

Mr& and Mrs& Frederick Heinze are entertaining Mr& Walter 
Lehner, of Vienna; Mr& Ingo Dussa, of Dusseldorf, Germany, 
and Mr& Bietnar Haaek, of Brelin.   Mr& and Mrs& 
Harry D& Hoaps, Jr& have returned to their home in Drexel 
Park, after spending some time in Delray Beach Fla&.   Mr& 
and Mrs& James F& Mitchell, with their daughter, Anne, and 
son, James, Jr& are spending several weeks in Florida, and will 
visit in Clearwater.   Cmdr& Warren Taylor, USN&, and 
Mrs& Taylor, of E& Greenwich, R& I&, will have with them 
for the Easter holidays the latter's parents, Mr& and Mrs& John 
B& Walbridge, of Drexel Hill.   Mr& and Mrs& L& 
DeForest Emmert, formerly of Drexel Hill, and now of Newtown 
Square, are entertaining Mr& and Mrs& Ashman E& Emmert, of 
Temple, Pa&.   Mrs& William H& Merner, of Drexel Park, 
entertained at a luncheon at her home on Wednesday.   Mr& 
and Mrs& Robert Brown will return next week from Bermuda.

Mrs& H& E& Godwin will entertain the members of her Book 
Club at her home on Tuesday. 
DR& AND MRS& Richard Peter Vieth announce the engagement 
of their daughter, Miss Susan Ann Vieth, to Mr& Conrad Wall /3,, 
son of Dr& Conrad Wall /2,, and Mrs& Nell Kennedy Wall. 
The marriage will be quietly celebrated in early February.

Miss Vieth was graduated from the Louise S& McGehee school 
and is attending Wellesley college in Wellesley, Mass&. Her mother 
is the former Miss Stella Hayward.   Mr& Wall is a student 
at Tulane university, where he is a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon 
fraternity. @   Their Majesties, The Queen of Carnival 
and The Queen of Comus, have jointly issued invitations for Shrove 
Tuesday evening at midnight at which time they will entertain in the 
grand ballroom of a downtown hotel following the balls of Rex and 
Comus. @   Mr& and Mrs& Richard B& McConnell and their 
son-in-law and daughter, Mr& and Mrs& Raymond B& Walker 
will be hosts this Tuesday evening at dinner at the State st& home 
of the Walkers honoring Mrs& McConnell's debutante niece, Miss 
Barbara Williams. @   Debutante Miss Lady Helen Hardy 
will be feted at luncheon this Tuesday at which the hostess will 
be Mrs& Edwin Socola of Waveland, Miss&. She will entertain 
at a Vieux Carre restaurant at 1 o'clock in the early afternoon. @

Another debutante, Miss Virginia Richmond, will also be 
the honoree this Wednesday at luncheon at which Mrs& John Dane, 
will be hostess entertaining at a downtown hotel. @ Miss Katherine 
Vickery, who attends Sweet Briar college in Virginia, will rejoin 
her father, Dr& Eugene Vickery, at the family home in Richmond 
pl& Wednesday for part of the Carnival festivities. @   When 
the Achaeans entertained Wednesday last at their annual Carnival 
masquerade ball, Miss Margaret Pierson was chosen to rule over the 
festivities, presented at the Muncipal Auditorium and chosen as her 
ladies in waiting were Misses Clayton Nairne, Eleanor Eustis, Lynn 
Chapman, Irwin Leatherman of Robinsonville, Miss& and Helene 
Rowley. The large municipal hall was ablaze with color, which shown 
out from the bright array of chic ballgowns worn by those participating 
in the "maskers' dances".   The mother of young queen, 
Mrs& G& Henry Pierson Jr& chose a white brocade gown made 
on slim lines with panels of tomato-red and bright green satin extending 
down the back. Mrs& Thomas Jordan selected a black taffeta frock 
made with a skirt of fringed tiers and worn with crimson silk slippers. 
Mrs& Clayton Nairne, whose daughter, was among the court maids, 
chose a deep greenish blue lace gown. Mrs& Fenwick Eustis, whose 
daughter was also a maid to the queen, wore an ashes of roses slipper 
satin gown. Mrs& Peter Feringa Jr&, last year's Achaeans' 
queen, chose an eggshell white filmy lace short dress made with 
a wide decolletage trimmed with an edging of tulle. Mrs& Eustis Reily's 
olive-green 
street length silk taffeta dress was embroidered on 
the bodice with gold threads and golden sequins and beads.

The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad announced yesterday it would 
reduce the total amount of its payroll by 10 per cent through salary 
cuts and lay-offs effective at 12.01 A&M& next Saturday. The 
current monthly payroll comes to about $15,000,000.   Howard E& 
Simpson, the railroad's president, said, "A drastic decline in 
freight loading due principally to the severe slump in the movement 
of heavy goods has necessitated this regrettable action".   The 
reduction in expenses will affect employees in the thirteen states in 
which the B& + O& operates. 

#SALARY CUT AND LAY-OFFS#

It 
will be accomplished in two ways: _1._ A flat reduction of 10 per 
cent in the salary of all officers, supervisors and other employees 
not belonging to unions. There are about 3,325 officers and employees 
in this class. _2._ Sufficient lay-offs of union employees to 
bring about a 10 per cent cut in the union payroll expense.   Since 
the railroad cannot reduce the salary of individual union members 
under contract, it must accomplish its payroll reduction by placing some 
of the men on furlough, a B&+O& spokesman said.   Those 
union members kept on their jobs, therefore, will not take a cut in their 
wages.   The spokesman said the number to be furloughed cannot 
be estimated since the lay-offs must be carried out in each area depending 
on what men are most needed on the job.

A thug struck a cab driver in the face with a pistol last night 
after robbing him of $18 at Franklin and Mount streets.   The 
victim, Norman B& Wiley, 38, of the 900 block North Charles street, 
was treated for cuts at Franklin Square Hospital after the robbery.

The driver told police he followed as the Negro man got 
out of the cab with his money. The victim was beaten when he attempted 
to stop the bandit.   He said the assailant, who was armed 
with a .45-caliber automatic, entered the taxi at Pennsylvania avenue 
and Gold street.   In another attack, Samuel Verstandig, 41, 
proprietor of a food store in the 2100 block Aiken street, told police 
two Negroes assaulted him in his store and stole $150 from the cash 
register after choking and beating him.

A baby was burned to death and two other children were seriously 
injured last night in a fire which damaged their one-room Anne Arundel 
county home.   The victim Darnell Somerville, Negro, 1, 
was pronounced dead on arrival at Anne Arundel General Hospital 
in Annapolis.   His sister and brother, Marie Louise, 3, and 
John Raymond, Jr& 22 months, were admitted to the hospital. The 
girl was in critical condition with burns over 90 per cent of her body. 

#BOY IN FAIR CONDITION#

The boy received second-degree burns of 
the face, neck and back. His condition was reported to be fair.

Police said the children's mother, Mrs& Eleanor Somerville, 
was visiting next door when the fire occurred.   The house is 
on Old Annapolis road a mile south of Severna Park, at Jones Station, 
police said. 

_ANNAPOLIS, JAN& 7_- The Anne Arundel county school superintendent 
has asked that the Board of Education return to the practice 
of recording its proceedings mechanically so that there will be no more 
question about who said what.   The proposal was made by Dr& 
David S& Jenkins after he and Mrs& D& Ellwood Williams, 
Jr&, 
a board member and long-time critic of the superintendent, argued 
for about fifteen minutes at this week's meeting.   The disagreement 
was over what Dr& Jenkins had said at a previous session 
and how his remarks appeared in the minutes presented at the following 
meeting. 

#CITES DISCREPANCIES#

Mrs& Williams had a list which 
she said contained about nine or ten discrepancies between her memory 
of Dr& Jenkins's conversation and how they were written up for 
the board's approval.   "I hate to have these things come 
up again and again", Dr& Jenkins commented as he made his suggestion. 
"These are the board's minutes. I'll write what you tell 
me to".   For a number of years the board used a machine to 
keep a permanent record but abandoned the practice about two years ago.

It was about that time, a board member said later, that Dr& 
Thomas G& Pullen, Jr&, 
State superintendent of schools, told 
Dr& Jenkins and a number of other education officials that he would 
not talk to them with a recording machine sitting in front of him.

The Board of County Commissioners, the Sanitary Commission, 
the Planning and Zoning Board and other county official bodies 
use recording machines for all public business in order to prevent law 
suits and other misunderstandings about what actually happened at their 
meetings.   Dr& Jenkins notes, however, that most of the 
school boards in the State do not do so.

State Senator Joseph A& Bertorelli (D&, First Baltimore) 
had a stroke yesterday while in his automobile in the 200 block 
of West Pratt street.   He was taken to University Hospital 
in a municipal ambulance.   Doctors at the hospital said he was 
partially paralyzed on the right side. His condition was said to be, 
"fair".   Police said he became ill while parked in front of 
a barber shop at 229 West Pratt street. 

#BARBER SUMMONED#

He called 
Vincent L& Piraro, proprietor of the shop, who summoned police 
and an ambulance.

The vice president of the City Council complained yesterday 
that there are "deficiencies" in the city's snow clearing program 
which should be corrected as soon as possible.   Councilman William 
D& Schaefer (D&, Fifth) said in a letter to Mayor Grady 
that plowing and salting crews should be dispatched earlier in storms 
and should be kept on the job longer than they were last month. 

#WERNER 
CRITICIZED#

Conceding that several cities to the north were 
in worse shape than Baltimore after the last storm, Mr& Schaefer 
listed several improvements he said should be made in the snow plan here.

He said the snow plan was put in effect too slowly in December. 
Equipment should be in operation "almost immediately after the 
first snowfall", Mr& Schaefer said.   The Councilman, 
who is the Administration floor leader, also criticized Bernard L& 
Werner, public works director, for "halting snow operations" on 
Tuesday night after the Sunday storm. 

#SENT HOME FOR REST#

Mr& 
Werner said yesterday that operations continued through the week. 
What he did, Mr& Werner said, was let manual laborers go home Tuesday 
night for some rest. Work resumed Wednesday, he said. 
Mr& Schaefer also recommended that the snow emergency route plan, 
under which parking is banned on key streets and cars are required to 
use snow tires or chains on them, should be "strictly enforced".

Admitting that main streets and the central business district 
should have priority, the Councilman said it is also essential that 
small shopping areas "not be overlooked **h if our small merchants are 
to survive".   Recounting personal observations of clearance 
work, the Councilman cited instances of inefficient use of equipment 
or supplies by poorly trained workers and urged that plow blades be 
set so they do not leave behind a thin layer of snow which eventually 
freezes. 

_ANNAPOLIS, JAN& 7 (SPECIAL)_- The 15-year-old adopted son of 
a Washington attorney and his wife, who were murdered early today in 
their Chesapeake Bay-front home, has been sent to Spring Grove State 
Hospital for detention.   The victims were H& Malone Dresbach, 
47, and his wife, Shirley, 46. Each had been shot in the back 
several times with a .22-caliber automatic rifle, according to Capt& 
Elmer Hagner, chief of Anne Arundel detectives.   Judge 
Benjamin Michaelson signed the order remanding the boy to the hospital 
because of the lack of juvenile accommodations at the Anne Arundel 
County Jail. The Circuit Court jurist said the boy will have 
a hearing in Juvenile Court.   

#YOUNGER SON CALLS POLICE# 

Soon after 10 A&M&, when police reached the 1-1/2-story brick 
home 
in the Franklin Manor section, 15 miles south of here on the bay, in 
response to a call from the Dresbach's other son, Lee, 14, they 
found Mrs& Dresbach's body on the first-floor bedroom floor. Her 
husband was lying on the kitchen floor, police said.   The younger 
son told police his brother had run from the house after the shootings 
and had driven away in their mother's car.   The description 
of the car was immediately broadcast throughout Southern Maryland 
on police radio. 

#TWO BROTHERS ADOPTED#

Police said the boys 
are natural brothers and were adopted as small children by the Dresbachs.

Trooper J& A& Grzesiak spotted the wanted car, 
with 
three boys, at a Route 2 service station, just outside Annapolis. The 
driver admitted he was the Dresbachs' son and all three were taken 
to the Edgewater Station, police said. 

_ANNAPOLIS, JAN& 7_- Governor Tawes today appointed Lloyd L& 
Simpkins, his administrative assistant, as Maryland's Secretary 
of State.   Mr& Simpkins will move into the post being vacated 
by Thomas B& Finan, earlier named attorney general to succeed 
C& Ferdinand Sybert, who will be elevated to an associate judgeship 
on the Maryland Court of Appeals.   Governor Tawes announced 
that a triple swearing-in ceremony will be held in his office 
next Friday. 

#SIMPKINS FROM SOMERSET#

Mr& Simpkins is a resident 
of Somerset county, and he and the Governor, also a Somerset countian, 
have been friends since Mr& Simpkins was a child.   Now 
38, Mr& Simpkins was graduated from the University of Maryland's 
College of Agriculture in 1947.   Five years later, he 
was awarded the university's degree in law.   Mr& Simpkins 
made a name for himself as a member of the House of Delegates from 
1951 through 1958. From the outset of his first term, he established 
himself as one of the guiding spirits of the House of Delegates.

MARYLAND contracts for future construction during October 
totaled $77,389,000, up to 10 per cent compared to October, 1960, F& 
W& Dodge, Dodge Corporation, reported.   Dodge reported 
the following breakdown:   Nonresidential at $20,447,000, down 
28 per cent; residential at $47,101,000, up 100 per cent; and 
heavy engineering at $9,841,000, down 45 per cent.   The cumulative 
total of construction contracts for the first ten months of 1961 amounted 
to $634,517,000, a 4 per cent increase compared to the corresponding 
period of last year.   A breakdown of the ten-month total 
showed:   Nonresidential at $253,355,000, up 22 per cent; residential 
at $278,877,000, up 12 per cent; and heavy engineering at 
$102,285,000, down 33 per cent.   Residential building consists 
of houses, apartments, hotels, dormitories and other buildings designed 
for shelter.

The share of the new housing market enjoyed by apartments, which 
began about six years ago, has more than tripled within that span of 
time.   In 1961, it is estimated that multiple unit dwellings 
will account for nearly 30 per cent of the starts in residential construction.

While availability of mortgage money has been a factor 
in encouraging apartment construction, the generally high level of 
prosperity in the past few years plus rising consumer income are among 
the factors that have encouraged builders to concentrate in the 
apartment-building 
field.   Although economic and personal circumstances 
vary widely among those now choosing apartments, Leo J& Pantas, 
vice president of a hardware manufacturing company, pointed out recently 
that many apartment seekers seem to have one characteristic in common: 
a desire for greater convenience and freedom from the problems 
involved in maintaining a house. 

#CONVENIENCE HELD KEY#

"Convenience 
is therefore the key to the housing market today. Trouble-free, 
long-life, quality components will play an increasingly important 
part in the merchandising of new housing in 1960", Pantas 
predicted.

SIXTY-SEVEN living units are being added to the 165-unit 
Harbor View Apartments in the Cherry Hill section.   Ultimately 
the development will comprise 300 units, in two-story and three-story 
structures. Various of the apartments are of the terrace type, being 
on the ground floor so that entrance is direct. Others, which are 
reached by walking up a single flight of stairs, have balconies.

The structures housing the apartments are of masonry and frame construction. 
Heating is by individual gas-fired, forced warm air systems.

CONSTRUCTION in 1962 will account for about 15 per cent of 
the gross national product, according to a study by Johns-Manville 
Corporation. 

_LONDON, FEB& 9_- Vital secrets of Britain's first atomic 
submarine, the Dreadnought, and, by implication, of the entire United 
States navy's still-building nuclear sub fleet, were stolen by a 
London-based soviet spy ring, secret service agents testified today.

The Dreadnought was built on designs supplied by the United 
States in 1959 and was launched last year. It is a killer sub- that 
is, a hunter of enemy subs. It has a hull patterned on that of the 
United States navy's Nautilus, the world's first atomic submarine. 
Its power unit, however, was derived from the reactor of the more 
modern American nuclear submarine Skipjack. 

#FIVE HELD FOR TRIAL# 

The announcement that the secrets of the Dreadnought had been stolen 
was made in Bow st& police court here at the end of a three day 
hearing. A full trial was ordered for:   Two British civil 
servants, Miss Ethel Gee, 46, and her newly devoted friend, Harry 
Houghton, 55, and divorced. They are accused of whisking secrets out 
of naval strongrooms over which they kept guard.   Gordon A& 
Lonsdale, 37, a mystery man presumed to be Russian altho he carries 
a Canadian passport. When arrested, he had the submarine secrets 
on a roll of candid camera film as well as anti-submarine secrets in 
Christmas gift wrapping, it was testified. 

#FLASHED TO MOSCOW#

A 
shadowy couple who call themselves Peter Kroger, bookseller, and wife, 
Joyce.   [<In Washington, the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
identified the Krogers as Morris and Lola Cohen, an American 
couple formerly of New York City>.]   In their suburban 
cottage the crown charges, the Krogers received secrets from the mystery 
man, usually on the first Saturday evening of each month, and 
spent much of the week-end getting the secrets off to Moscow, either 
on a powerful transmitter buried under the kitchen floor or as dots posted 
over period marks in used books. Each dot on magnification resumed 
its original condition as a drawing, a printed page, or a manuscript.

All five pleaded innocent. Only Miss Gee asked for bail. 
Her young British lawyer, James Dunlop, pleaded that she was sorely 
needed at her Portland home by her widowed mother, 80, her maiden 
aunt, also 80 and bedridden for 20 years, and her uncle, 76, who once 
ran a candy shop. 

#REFUSES TO GRANT BAIL#

"I am not prepared to 
grant bail to any of them", said the magistrate, K&J&P& Baraclough.

The trial will be held, probably the first week of 
March, in the famous Old Bailey central criminal court where Klaus 
Fuchs, the naturalized British German born scientist who succeeded 
in giving American and British atomic bomb secrets to Russia and 
thereby changed world history during the 1950s, was sentenced to 14 years 
in prison.   Fourteen years is the maximum penalty now faced 
by the new five, who may have altered history in the 1960s. Fuchs, 
after nine and a half years, was released, being given time off for good 
behavior. He promptly went to communist East Germany.   The 
magistrate tonight refused to return to the five $29,000 in American 
and British currency, mostly $20 bills, and in British government 
bonds and stocks.   "This is Russian money", said Mervin Griffith-Jones 
for the attorney general's office. He asserted that 
the Krogers were the bankers for Moscow, Lonsdale the Red paymaster, 
and the two civil servants the recipients for selling their country's 
secrets. #"OF HIGHEST VALUE"#

The fact that secrets of 
the Dreadnought, and thereby of the American undersea fleet, were involved 
in the spy case had been hinted at earlier.   But just before 
luncheon today the fact was announced grimly by the British navy's 
chief adviser to the cabinet on underwater warfare, Capt& George 
Symonds. He said that drawings of the Dreadnought and printed 
details about the ship were found reproduced in an undeveloped roll of 
film taken from Lonsdale when he was arrested with the two civil servants 
outside the Old Vic theater Saturday afternoon, Jan& 7.

The information, he said, would have been of the highest value to 
a potential enemy. 

#COURT CLEARED#

Just how many sub secrets were 
being handed over when the ring, watched for six months, was broken 
remained untold.   The British defending lawyers, who today increased 
from three to four, demanded to know if they could make the information 
involved seem of little value to a jury, the chances of their 
clients would improve. So in the name of justice the magistrate cleared 
the court of all except officials to allow the captain to elaborate 
for almost an hour.   Almost any information about the Dreadnought 
would also reveal secrets about the American underwater fleet. 
Britain began designing the ship in 1956 but got nowhere until the American 
government decided to end a ban on sharing military secrets with 
Britain that had been imposed after Fuchs blabbed. The United 
States offered to supply a complete set of propelling equipment like 
that used in the Skipjack.   With the machinery went a complete 
design for the hull.   The Skipjack was a second generation 
atomic sub, much advanced on the Nautilus and the other four which preceded 
it. 

#NAVY'S FUTURE INVOLVED#

"Much of the navy's future 
depends upon her", an American naval announcement said on the 
Skipjack's first arrival in British waters in August, 1959, for exhibition 
to selected high officers at Portland underwater research station. 
It was there that the two accused civil servants were at work.

"Her basic hull form [a teardrop] and her nuclear power 
plant will be used for almost all new submarines, including the potent 
Polaris missile submarines", the statement went on.   The atom 
reactor, water cooled, was the result of almost a decade of research 
at the naval reactors branch of the atomic energy commission and Westinghouse 
Electric Corp&. Thru development, the reactor and its 
steam turbines had been reduced greatly in size, and also in complexity, 
allowing a single propeller to be used, the navy said.   The 
hull was also a result of almost a decade of work. It was first tried 
out on a conventional submarine, the Albacore, in 1954.   The 
Skipjack became the fastest submarine ever built. Reputedly it could 
outrun, underwater, the fastest destroyers. It could, reputedly, go 
70,000 miles without refueling and stay down more than a month. 
It was of the hunter-killer type, designed to seek out ships and other 
submarines with its most advance gear and destroy them with torpedoes.

The navy captain disclosed also that a list of questions found 
in Miss Gee's purse would, if completed and handed back, have 
given the Kremlin a complete picture "of our current anti-submarine 
effort and would have shown what we are doing in research and development 
for the future". 

#INTERESTED IN DETECTOR#

The spy ring also 
was particularly interested in ~ASDIC, the underwater equipment 
for detecting submarines, it was testified. Range was a vital detail. 
Designs of parts were sought.   Six radiomen told how, twice 
on two days after the ring was nabbed, a transmitter near Moscow was 
heard calling, using signals, times and wavelengths specified on codes 
found hidden in cigaret lighters in Lonsdale's apartment and the 
Krogers' house and also fastened to the transmitter lid. Oddly, 
the calls were still heard 11 days after the five were arrested.

The charge that the federal indictment of three Chicago narcotics 
detail detectives "is the product of rumor, combined with malice, 
and individual enmity" on the part of the federal narcotics unit here 
was made yesterday in their conspiracy trial before Judge Joseph 
Sam Perry in federal District court.   The three- Miles J& 
Cooperman, Sheldon Teller, and Richard Austin- and eight other 
defendants are charged in six indictments with conspiracy to violate 
federal narcotic laws.   In his opening statement to a jury 
of eight women and four men, Bernard H& Sokol, attorney for the detectives, 
said that evidence would show that his clients were "entirely 
innocent". #'HAD TO KNOW PEDDLERS'#

"When they became 
members of the city police narcotics unit", Sokol said, "they were 
told they would have to get to know certain areas of Chicago in which 
narcotics were sold and they would have to get to know people in 
the narcotics racket. They, on occasion, posed as addicts and peddlers".

Altho federal and city narcotic agents sometimes worked 
together, Sokol continued, 
rivalries developed when they were "aiming 
at the same criminals". This, he added, brought about "petty jealousies" 
and "petty personal grievances".   "In the same 
five year period that the United States says they [the detectives] 
were engaged in this conspiracy", Sokol continued, "these three 
young men received a total of 26 creditable mentions and many special 
compensations, and were nominated for the Lambert Tree award and the 
mayor's medal". 

#NO COMMENTS BY U&S&#

In opening, D& 
Arthur Connelly, assistant United States attorney, read the indictment, 
but made no comments. Attorneys for the eight other defendants 
said only that there was no proof of their clients' guilt. 
Cooperman and Teller are accused of selling $4,700 worth of heroin 
to a convicted narcotics peddler, Otis Sears, 45, of 6934 Indiana av&. 
Among other acts, Teller and Austin are accused of paying $800 
to Sears.   The first witness, Moses Winston Mardis, 5835 
Michigan av&, a real estate agent and former bail bondsman, took the 
stand after opening statements had been made. But court adjourned after 
he testified he introduced James White and Jeremiah Hope Pullings, 
two of the defendants, and also introduced Pullings to Jessy 
Maroy, a man mentioned in the indictment but not indicted.

Buaford Robinson, 23, of 7026 Stewart av&, a ~CTA bus 
driver, was slugged and robbed last night by a group of youths at 51st 
street and South Park way. Robinson was treated at a physician's 
office for a cut over his left eyebrow and a possible sprained knee. 
His losses included his money bag, containing $40 to $50 and his $214 
paycheck.   Robinson told Policemen James Jones and Morgan 
Lloyd of the Wabash avenue district that 10 youths boarded his south 
bound express bus in front of Dunbar Vocational High school, 30th 
street and South Park way, and began "skylarking".   When 
51st street was reached, Robinson related, he stopped the bus and told 
the youths he was going to call the ~CTA supervisor. As he left 
the bus with his money bag, Robinson added, the largest youth accosted 
him, a quarrel ensued, and the youth knocked him down. Then the 
youths fled with his money.

Mrs& Blanche Dunkel, 60, who has spent 25 years in the Dwight 
reformatory for women for the murder in 1935 of her son-in-law, Ervin 
Lang, then 28, appealed for a parole at a hearing yesterday before 
two Illinois pardon and parole board members, John M& Bookwalter 
and Joseph Carpentier. She had been sentenced to 180 years in 
prison, but former Gov& Stratton commuted her term to 75 years, making 
her eligible for parole, as one of his last acts in office.

Mrs& Dunkel admitted the slaying and said that the son-in-law became 
her lover after the death of her daughter in 1934. It was when he 
attempted to end the relationship that the murder took place.

The son of a wealthy Evanston executive was fined $100 yesterday 
and forbidden to drive for 60 days for leading an Evanston policeman 
on a high speed chase over icy Evanston and Wilmette streets Jan& 
20.   The defendant, William L& Stickney /3, 23, of 
3211 Park pl&, Evanston, who pleaded guilty to reckless driving, also 
was ordered by Judge James Corcoran to attend the Evanston traffic 
school each Tuesday night for one month.   Stickney is a salesman 
for Plee-Zing, Inc&, 2544 Green Bay rd&, Evanston, a 
food brokerage and grocery chain firm, of which his father, William L& 
Jr&, is president.   Patrolman James F& Simms said 
he started in pursuit when he saw young Stickney speeding north in Stewart 
avenue at Central street.   At Jenks street, Simms said, 
the car skidded completely around, just missed two parked cars, and 
sped east in Jenks.   The car spun around again, Simms said, 
before Stickney could turn north in Prairie avenue, and then violated 
two stop lights as he traveled north into Wilmette in Prairie. 

_ST& JOHNS, MICH&, APRIL 19._- A jury of seven men and five 
women found 21-year-old Richard Pohl guilty of manslaughter yesterday 
in the bludgeon slaying of Mrs& Anna Hengesbach.   Pohl 
received the verdict without visible emotion. He returned to his cell 
in the county jail, where he has been held since his arrest last July, 
without a word to his court-appointed attorney, Jack Walker, or his 
guard. 

#STEPSON VINDICATED#

The verdict brought vindication to 
the dead woman's stepson, Vincent Hengesbach, 54, who was tried 
for the same crime in December, 1958, and released when the jury failed 
to reach a verdict. Mrs& Hengesbach was killed on Aug& 31, 1958.

Hengesbach has been living under a cloud ever since. When 
the verdict came in against his young neighbor, Hengesbach said:

"I am very pleased to have the doubt of suspicion removed. Still, 
I don't wish to appear happy at somebody's else's misfortune". 

#LIVES ON WELFARE#

Hengesbach, who has been living on welfare 
recently, said he hopes to rebuild the farm which was settled by 
his grandfather in Westphalia, 27 miles southwest of here.   Hengesbach 
has been living in Grand Ledge since his house and barn were 
burned down after his release in 1958.   Pohl confessed the 
arson while being questioned about several fires in the Westphalia area 
by State Police.   He also admitted killing Mrs& Hengesbach. 
However, the confession, which was the only evidence against him, 
was retracted before the trial. 

#CHARGES IN DOUBT#

Assistant Prosecutor 
Fred Lewis, who tried both the Hengesbach and Pohl cases, 
said he did not know what would be done about two arson charges pending 
against Pohl.   Circuit Judge Paul R& Cash did not set 
a date for sentencing. Pohl could receive from 1 to 15 years in prison 
or probation.   Walker said he was considering filing a motion 
for a new trial which would contend that the verdict was against the 
weight of the evidence and that there were several errors in trial 
procedure. 

#LOCKED IN MOTEL#

A verdict against Pohl came at 4:05 
p&m& after almost 13-1/2 hours of deliberation. The jury, which 
was locked up in a motel overnight, was canvassed at the request of 
Walker after the verdict was announced.   The jury foreman, Mrs& 
Olive Heideman, of rural Elsie, said that a ballot was not even 
taken until yesterday morning and that the first day of deliberation 
was spent in going over the evidence.   She said the jurors agreed 
that Pohl's confession was valid.   The jury asked Judge 
Cash to send in his written definition of the difference between first 
and second-degree murder and manslaughter.   The verdict came 
three hours later.   Some 30 spectators remained in the court during 
the day and were on hand to hear the verdict read. The trial had 
packed the large courtroom for more than a week.

A Sterling Township family of six surviving children, whose 
mother died yesterday as the aftermath to a fire that also killed one 
of the children, found today they had the help of hundreds of neighbors 
and school friends.   While neighbor women assumed some of the 
dead mother's duties, fund-raising events were being planned by a homeowners 
association and a student council for the hard-hit Henry Kowalski 
family, 34220 Viceroy.   Mrs& Eleanor Kowalski, 42, 
died yesterday afternoon in Holy Cross Hospital of burns suffered 
in a fire that followed a bottled gas explosion Saturday night at the 
flat of her widowed mother, Mrs& Mary Pankowski, in the adjoining 
suburb of Warren. 

#SERVICES TOMORROW#

Funeral services for Mrs& 
Kowalski and her daughter, Christine, 11, who died of burns at 
the same hospital Monday, have been scheduled for 10 a&m& tomorrow 
in St& Anne's Catholic Church, 31978 Mound, in Warren.

The 
mother and daughter, who will be buried side by side in Mt& Olivet 
Cemetery, rested together today in closed caskets at the Lyle Elliott 
Funeral Home, 31730 Mound, Warren.   Mrs& Pankowski, 
61, remained in Holy Cross Hospital as a result of the explosion, 
which occurred while Mrs& Kowalski fueled a cook stove in the grandmother's 
small upstairs flat at 2274 Eight Mile road east. 

#HELD 
CANDLE#

Assistant Fire Chief Chester Cornell said gas fumes 
apparently were ignited by a candle which one of the three Kowalski 
girls present held for her mother, because the flat lacked electricity.

Christine's twin sister, Patricia, and Darlene Kowalski, 
8, escaped with minor burns. They are home now with the other Kowalski 
children, Vicky, 14; Dennis, 6; Eleanor, 2; and Bernardine, 
1.   "All we have left in the world is one another, and we 
must stay together the way Mother wanted", Kowalski said in telling 
his children of their mother's death yesterday afternoon. 
Kowalski, a roofer who seldom worked last winter, already was in arrears 
on their recently purchased split-level home when the tragedy staggered 
him with medical and funeral bills. #$135 DONATED#

Neighbor 
women, such as Mrs& Sidney Baker, 2269 Serra, Sterling Township, 
have been supplying the family with meals and handling household chores 
with Kowalski's sister-in-law, Mrs& Anna Kowalski, 22111 
David, East Detroit.   Another neighbor, Mrs& Frank C& 
Smith, 2731 Pall Mall, Sterling Township, surprised Kowalski by 
coming to the home yesterday with $135 collected locally toward the 
$400 funeral costs.   John C& Houghton, president of the Tareytown 
Acres Homeowners Association, followed that by announcing plans 
last night for a door-to-door fund drive throughout their subdivision 
on behalf of the Kowalski family. 

#STUDENTS HELP OUT#

Houghton 
said 6 p&m& Friday had been set for a canvass of all 480 homes 
in the subdivision, which is located northeast of Dequindre and 14 
Mile road east. He said contributions also could be mailed to Post 
Office Box 553, Warren Village Station.   Vicky Kowalski 
meanwhile learned that several of her fellow students had collected almost 
$25 for her family during the lunch hour yesterday at Fuhrmann Junior 
High School, 5155 Fourteen Mile road east.   Principal 
Clayton W& Pohly said he would allow a further collection between 
classes today, and revealed that ~Y-Teen Club past surpluses had 
been used to provide a private hospital nurse Monday for Mrs& Kowalski. 

#FUNDS FROM DANCES#

Student Council officers announced 
today the Kowalski family would be given the combined proceeds from 
a school dance held two weeks ago, and another dance for Fuhrmann's 
770 students this Friday night.   "Furhmann's faculty is proud 
that this has been a spontaneous effort, started largely among the 
students themselves, because of fondness for Vicky and sympathy for 
her entire family, Pohly said.   There also were reports of a 
collection at the County Line Elementary School, 3505o Dequindre, 
which has been attended this year by four of the Kowalski children including 
Christine. 

#EXPRESSES THANKS#

Kowalski has spoken but 
little since the fire last Saturday. But today he wanted to make a public 
statement.   "I never knew there were such neighbors and 
friends around me and my family. I wasn't sure there were such people 
anywhere in the world. I'll need more than a single day to find 
the words to properly express my thanks to them".

An alert 10-year-old safety patrol boy was congratulated by police 
today for his part in obtaining a reckless driving conviction against 
a youthful motorist.   Patrolman George Kimmell, of McClellan 
Station, said he would recommend a special safety citation for 
Ralph Sisk, 9230 Vernor east, a third grader at the Scripps School, 
for his assistance in the case.   Kimmell said he and Ralph 
were helping children across Belvidere at Kercheval Monday afternoon 
when a car heading north on Belvidere stopped belatedly inside the 
pedestrian crosswalk. 

#GETS CAR NUMBER#

Kimmell ordered the driver 
to back up, watched the children safely across and was approaching 
the car when it suddenly "took off at high speed", he said, narrowly 
missing him.   Commandeering a passing car, Kimmell pursued 
the fleeing vehicle, but lost it in traffic. Returning to the school 
crossing, the officer was informed by the Sisk boy that he recognized 
the driver, a neighbor, and had obtained the license number.   The 
motorist later was identified as Richard Sarkees, 17, of 2433 McClellan, 
currently on probation and under court order not to drive. 

#GIVEN 15 DAYS#

He was found guilty of reckless driving yesterday 
by Traffic Judge George T& Murphy, who continued his no-driving 
probation for another year and ordered him to spend 15 days in the Detroit 
House of Correction. The jail sentence is to begin the day 
after Sarkees graduates from Eastern High School in June.

The long crisis in Laos appeared nearing a showdown today.

Britain announced that it is asking the Soviet Union to agree 
tomorrow to an immediate cease-fire. 

#HELP ASKED#

In Vientiane, 
the royal Laotian government decided today to ask its "friends and 
neighbors" for help in fighting what it called a new rebel offensive 
threatening the southeast Asian kingdom.   Britain's plans 
to press Russia for a definite cease-fire timetable was announced in 
London by Foreign Secretary Lord Home.   He said Britain also 
proposed that the international truce commission should be reconvened, 
sent to New Delhi and from there to Laos to verify the cease-fire.

A 14-power conference on Laos should then meet on May 5, 
he said. 

#PLEA FOR ARMS#

The Laos government plea for help was 
made by Foreign Minister Tiao Sopsaisana. He indicated that requests 
would be made for more U&S& arms and more U&S& military 
advisers.   He declared the government is thinking of asking 
for foreign troops if the situation worsens.   One of the first 
moves made after a cabinet decision was to request the United States 
to establish a full-fledged military assistance group instead of the 
current civilian body.   A note making the request was handed to 
U&S& Ambassador Winthrop G& Brown. 

#HEAVY SUPPORT#

The 
Laos government said four major Pathet Lao rebel attacks had been 
launched, heavily supported by troops from Communist North Viet Nam.

The minister, describing the attacks which led up to the 
appeal, said that 60,000 Communist North Vietnamese were fighting royal 
army troops on one front- near Thakhek, in southern-central Laos.

There was no confirmation of such massive assaults from independent 
sources. In the past such government claims have been found 
exaggerated. 

_HAVANA, APRIL 19._- Two Americans and seven Cubans were executed 
by firing squads today as Castro military tribunals began decreeing 
the death penalty for captured invasion forces and suspected collaborators.

A Havana radio broadcast identified the Americans 
as Howard Anderson and August Jack McNair.   The executions 
took place at dawn only a few hours after Havana radio announced their 
conviction by a revolutionary tribunal at Pinar del Rio, where the 
executions took place. 

#ARMS PLOT CHARGED#

The broadcast said 
Anderson, a Seattle ex-marine and Havana businessman, and McNair, 
of Miami, were condemned on charges of smuggling arms to Cuban rebels.

Anderson operated three Havana automobile service stations 
and was commander of the Havana American Legion post before it disbanded 
since the start of Fidel Castro's regime.   Anderson's 
wife and four children live in Miami.   McNair, 25, was seized 
March 20 with four Cubans and accused of trying to land a boatload 
of rifles in Pinar del Rio, about 35 miles from Havana. 

#REPORT 
OTHERS HELD#

At least 20 other Americans were reported to have 
been arrested in a mass political roundup.   Among them were a 
number of newsmen, including Henry Raymont, of United Press International, 
and Robert Berrellez, of Associated Press.   So many 
Cubans were reported being swept into the Castro dragnet that the 
massive Sports Palace auditorium and at least one hotel were converted 
into makeshift jails. More than 1,000 were said to have been arrested- 
100 of them Roman Catholic priests.

Of the millions who have served time in concentration camps in 
Siberia as political prisoners of the Soviet state, few emerge in the 
West to tell about it.   M& Kegham- the name is a pseudynom- 
was a teacher in Bucharest and a member of the Armenian Revolutionary 
Federation (~ARF)- two reasons the Communists put 
him 
away when they arrived in 1945.   Today, M& Kegham was in Detroit, 
en route to join his wife and children in California.

Emory University's Board of Trustees announced Friday that 
it was prepared to accept students of any race as soon as the state's 
tax laws made such a step possible.   "Emory University's 
charter and by-laws have never required admission or rejection of 
students on the basis of race", board chairman Henry L& Bowden 
stated.   But an official statement adopted by the 33-man Emory 
board at its annual meeting Friday noted that state taxing requirements 
at present are a roadblock to accepting Negroes.   The statement 
explained that under the Georgia Constitution and state law, 
tax-exempt status is granted to educational institutions only if they 
are segregated.   "Emory could not continue to operate according 
to its present standards as an institution of higher learning, of 
true university grade, and meet its financial obligations, without the 
tax-exemption privileges which are available to it only so long as it 
conforms to the aforementioned constitutional and statutory provisions", 
the statement said.   The statement did not mention what steps 
might be taken to overcome the legal obstacles to desegregation.

An Emory spokesman indicated, however, that the university itself 
did not intend to make any test of the laws.   The Georgia 
Constitution gives the Legislature the power to exempt colleges from 
property taxation if, among other criteria, "all endowments to institutions 
established for white people shall be limited to white people, 
and all endowments to institutions established for colored people shall 
be limited to colored people".   At least two private colleges 
in the Atlanta area now or in the past have had integrated student 
bodies, but their tax-exempt status never has been challenged by the 
state.   Emory is affiliated with the Methodist Church. Some 
church leaders, both clerical and lay, have criticized the university 
for not taking the lead in desegregation. 

#URGED IN 1954#

The student 
newspaper, The Emory Wheel, as early as the fall of 1954 called 
for desegregation.   "From its beginning", the trustees' 
statement said Friday, "Emory University has assumed as its primary 
commitment a dedication to excellence in Christian higher learning. 
Teaching, research and study, according to highest standards, under 
Christian influence, are paramount in the Emory University policy.

"As a private institution, supported by generous individuals, 
Emory University will recognize no obligation and will adopt no 
policy that would conflict with its purpose to promote excellence in 
scholarship and Christian education.   "There is not now, nor 
has there ever been in Emory University's charter or by-laws any 
requirement that students be admitted or rejected on the basis of race, 
color or creed. Insofar as its own governing documents are concerned, 
Emory University could now consider applications from prospective 
students, and others 
seeking applications from prospective students, 
and others seeking the opportunity to study or work at the university, 
irrespective of race, color or creed. 

#CORPORATE EXISTENCE#

"On 
the other hand, Emory University derives its corporate existence from 
the State of Georgia. **h   "When and if it can do so without 
jeopardizing constitutional and statutory tax-exemption privileges 
essential to the maintenance of its educational program and facilities, 
Emory University will consider applications of persons desiring 
to study or work at the University without regard to race, color or 
creed, continuing university policy that all applications shall be considered 
on the basis of intellectual and moral standards and other criteria 
designed to assure the orderly and effective conduct of the university 
and the fulfillment of its mission as an institution of Christian 
higher education".

A young man was killed and two others injured at midnight Friday 
when the car they were riding slid into a utility pole on Lake Avenue 
near Waddell Street, ~NE, police said.   The dead youth 
was identified as Robert E& Sims, 19, of 1688 Oak Knoll Cir&, 
~SE.   Patrolman G& E& Hammons said the car evidently 
slid out of control on rain-slick streets and slammed into the 
pole.   The other occupants were James Willard Olvey, 18, of 
963 Ponce de Leon Ave&, ~NE, and Larry Coleman Barnett, 19, 
of 704 Hill St&, ~SE, both of whom were treated at Grady Hospital 
for severe lacerations and bruises.

The Atlanta Negro student movement renewed its demands for movie 
theater integration Friday and threatened picketing and "stand-ins" 
if negotiations failed.   The demands were set forth in 
letters to seven owners of first-run theaters by the Committee on Appeal 
for Human Rights. #'INTEND TO ATTEND'#

"We intend to 
attend the downtown theaters before the first of the year", the identically 
worded letters said.   The letters set a Nov& 15 deadline 
for the start of negotiations. They indicated that stand-ins and 
picketing would be started if theater owners failed to cooperate.

Downtown and art theater managers and owners, contacted Friday 
night for comment on the ~COAHR request, said they had no knowledge 
of such a letter, and that it was not in the Friday mail. However, 
three of the managers did say that they would agree to attend the 
proposed meeting if all of the other managers decided to attend. 

#GATHER 
HERE#

The ~COAHR letter comes on the eve of a large gathering 
of theater managers and owners scheduled to begin here Sunday. 
Several theater operators said, however, that there is little likelihood 
of the subject being discussed during the three-day affair.

Student leaders began sporadic efforts to negotiate theater integration 
several months ago. Charles A& Black, ~COAHR chairman, 
said Friday that three theater representatives had agreed to meet 
with the students on Oct& 31 but had failed to show up. He declined 
to name the three.   Friday's letters asked for a Nov& 15 
meeting. Failure to attend the meeting or explain inability to attend, 
the letters said, would be considered a "sign of indifference".

Black said ~COAHR "hoped to be able to integrate the 
theaters without taking direct action, but we are pledged to using every 
legal and nonviolent means at our disposal **h"   A 
prepared 
statement released by the student group Friday stated that "extensive 
research by ~COAHR into techniques and methods of theater 
integration in other cities indicated that the presence of picket lines 
and stand-ins 
before segregated theaters causes a drop in profits **h"

Besides managers of downtown theaters, the students sent 
letters to owners of art theaters in the uptown area and Buckhead. 

#R& E& KILLINGSWORTH#

Raymond E& Killingsworth, 72, died 
Sunday at his home at 357 Venable St&, ~NW.   Mr& Kililngsworth 
was a foreman with ~S and ~W Cafeteria. He was born 
in Pittsboro, Miss&, and was a veteran of World War /1,. He 
was a member of the Baptist church.   Survivors include two brothers, 
C& E& Killingsworth, Atlanta, and John Killingsworth, 
Warren, Ohio; and two sisters, Miss Minnie Kililngsworth and 
Mrs& Bessie Bloom, both of Gettysburg, Pa&. 

#JOHN W& BALL# 

John William Ball, 68, of 133 Marietta St& ~NW, Apartment 
101~B, died Sunday at his home.   Mr& Ball was a house 
painter. He was a member of the Oakland City Methodist Church 
and a native of Atlanta.   Funeral services will be at 2 p&m& 
Tuesday at Blanchard's Chapel with the Rev& J& H& Hearn 
officiating.   Survivors include his sister, Mrs& Emma 
B& Odom of Atlanta. 

#MRS& LOLA HARRIS#

Mrs& Lola M& 
Harris, a native of Atlanta, died Sunday at her home in Garland, 
Tex&.   Survivors include a son, Charles R& Fergeson, Memphis, 
Tenn&; two daughters, Mrs& Gene F& Stoll and Miss 
Nancy Harris, both of Garland; her father, H& T& Simpson, 
Greenville, S&C&, and three sisters, Mrs& W& E& Little 
and Mrs& Hal B& Wansley, both of Atlanta, and Mrs& Bill 
Wallace, Wilmington, N&C&.

A 24-year-old Atlanta man was arrested Sunday after breaking 
into the home of relatives in search of his wife, hitting his uncle with 
a rock and assaulting two police officers who tried to subdue him, 
police said.   Patrolmen J& W& Slate and A& L& Crawford 
Jr& said they arrested Ronald M& Thomas, of 1671 Nakoma 
St&, ~NW, after he assaulted the officers. 

#POLICE ACCOUNT# 

The officers gave this account:   Thomas early Sunday went 
to the home of his uncle and aunt, Mr& and Mrs& R& C& Thomas, 
511 Blanche St&, ~NW, looking for his wife, Margaret Lou 
Thomas, 18, and their 11-month-old baby.   The younger Thomas 
ripped a screen door, breaking the latch, and after an argument struck 
his uncle with a rock, scratching his face. He also struck his aunt 
and wife, and during the melee the baby also suffered scratches.

When police arrived the man was still violent, Slate said. 

#ATTACKS 
OFFICER#

He attacked one of the officers and was restrained. 
About five minutes later he jumped up, Slate said, and struck the 
two policemen again.   He was then subdued and placed in the police 
car to be taken to Grady Hospital for treatment of scratches received 
in the melee. Then he attacked the two officers again and was again 
restrained, Slate related.   Slate said he and Crawford received 
cuts and scratches and their uniforms were badly torn. 
Thomas was charged with four counts of assault and battery. Two counts 
of assault on an officer, resisting arrest, disturbance and cursing, 
police said. A hearing was set for 8:30 a&m& Tuesday.

Mrs& Mary Self, who knows more than any other person about 
the 5,000 city employes for whom she has kept personnel records over 
the years, has closed her desk and retired.   Over the weekend, 
Mrs& Self, personnel clerk, was a feted and honored guest of the 
Atlanta Club, organization of women employes at City Hall. 
After 18 years in the personnel office, she has taken a disability pension 
on advice of her doctors.   As personnel clerk, she handled 
thousands of entries, ranging from appointments to jobs, to transfers 
to other employments, to pensions.   "I have enjoyed it and 
will feel a bit lost at least for a while", she said wistfully Friday.

One of the largest crowds in the club's history turned out 
to pay tribute to Mrs& Self and her service.

Georgia's Department of Agriculture is intensifying its fire 
ant eradication program in an effort to stay ahead of the fast-spreading 
pest.   The department is planning to expand its eradication 
program soon to four additional counties- Troup, Pierce, Bryan 
and Bulloch- to treat 132,000 acres infested by the ants, according 
to W& E& Blasingame state entomologist.   Low-flying planes 
will spread a granular-type chemical, heptachlor, over 30,000 acres 
in Troup, 37,000 acres in Pierce and 65,000 acres in Bulloch and 
Bryan counties.

The eradication effort is being pushed in Bibb 
and Jones counties, over 37,679 acres. The department has just finished 
treating 20,000 acres in urban areas of Macon.   Also being 
treated are Houston, Bleckley, Tift, Turner and Dodge counties, 
Blasingame said. The fire ant is thought to infest approximately 
two million acres of land in Georgia, attacking crops, young wildlife 
and livestock and can be a serious health menace to humans who are allergic 
to its venom, Blasingame said.

The north-bound entrance to the Expressway at 14th Street will 
be closed during the afternoon rush traffic hours this week. 
This is being done so that Georgia Tech can complete the final phase 
of a traffic survey on the North Expressway. Students have been 
using electric computers and high speed movie cameras during the study. 
Perhaps the engineers can find out what causes all the congestion and 
suggest methods to eliminate it.   Incidentally, 14th Street 
and the Expressway is the high accident intersection during daylight 
hours. It is followed by Cain Street and Piedmont Avenue, ~NE; 
the junction of the Northeast and Northwest Expressways and Jones 
Avenue and Marietta Street, ~NW.

Four persons died in Georgia weekend traffic crashes, two of 
them 
in a fiery crash near Snellville, the State Patrol said Sunday.

The latest death reported was that of 4-year-old Claude Douglas 
Maynor of Calvary. Troopers said the child ran into the path 
of a passing car a half-mile north of Calvary on Georgia 111 in Grady 
County.   That death occurred at 6:50 p&m& Friday and 
was reported Sunday, the patrol said. 

#BURSTS INTO FLAMES#

An 
auto overturned, skidding into a stopped tractor-trailer and burst into 
flames near Snellville, the patrol said.   Bobby Bester Hammett, 
21, of Rte& 3, Lawrenceville, and Mrs& Lucille Herrington 
Jones, 23, of Lawrenceville, died in the flaming car, the patrol 
said. 

_SALEM (SPECIAL)_- For a second month in a row, Multnomah County 
may be short of general assistance money in its budget to handle an 
unusually high summer month's need, the state public welfare commission 
was told Friday.   It is the only county in the state so 
far this month reporting a possible shortage in ~GA category, for 
which emergency allotment can be given by the state if necessary.

William Smythe, director of field service, told the commissioners 
that Multnomah, as of Aug& 22, had spent $58,918 out of its budgeted 
$66,000 in the category, leaving only $7,082 for the rest of the month.

At the rate of need indicated in the early weeks of the 
month, this could mean a shortage of as high as $17,000. But it probably 
will be less because of a usual slackening during the last weeks of 
each month, Smythe said. No request for emergency allotment had yet 
been received, however. 

#BOARD OKS PACT#

The commission, meeting 
for the first time with both of its newly-appointed commissioners, Roy 
Webster, of Hood River, and Dr& Ennis Keizer, of North Bend, 
approved a year's contract for a consultant in the data processing 
department who has been the center of considerable controversy in 
the past.   The contract with Ray Field, who has been converting 
the agencies electronic data processing program to magnetic tape, would 
renew his present salary of $8 an hour up to a maximum of 200 hours 
a month.   Field does the planning for the machine operations 
and fiscal processes and the adapting of the data processing system to 
new programs as they are made necessary by legislative and policy changes.

Acting Administrator Andrew F& Juras said that because 
of Field's unique position and knowledge in the program, the 
agency now would be seriously handicapped if he was not continued for 
a period.   But he emphasized that the agency must train people 
within its own employ to fulfill what Field handles, and he said he personally 
"regrets very much that the agency has not done this in the 
past".   He pointed out to the commissioners that the agency 
was literally dependent now on the machine processing, "and the whole 
wheels of the agency would stop if it broke down or the three or four 
persons directing it were to leave". 

#SALARY TERMED MODEST#

Juras 
said he insisted Field be continued on a consultant basis only 
and be answerable directly to the administrator of the agency and not 
to other agencies of the government. He also said that the salary, 
in 
terms of going rates in the field, was "modest" in terms of the man's 
responsibility. The conversion to magnetic tape is not yet completed, 
he said, and added Field's long service in state government 
and welfare employ gave him familiarity with the welfare program.

"Do you feel you can stand up to the next legislative session and 
defend this contract"? asked Mrs& Grace O& Peck, representative 
from Multnomah County, of the commission chairman, Joseph E& 
Harvey Jr&.   "My feeling at the moment", he said, 
"is that we have no alternative, irrespective of some of the arguments 
about him. The continued operation of this program depends on having 
his service". 

#HARVEY CRITICIZED#

Mrs& Peck, later joined 
by the commission's vice-chairman, Mrs& Lee Patterson, took Harvey 
to task for comments he had made to the North Portland Rotary 
Club Tuesday.   A publicity release from Oregon Physicians 
Service, of which Harvey is president, quoted him as saying the welfare 
office move to Salem, instead of "crippling" the agency, 
had provided an avenue to correct administrative weaknesses, with the 
key being improved communications between ~F+~A and the commission 
staff.   "I rather resent", she said, "you speaking to 
those groups in Portland as though just the move accomplished this. 
**h I think you fell short of the real truth in the matter: That the 
move is working out through the fine cooperation of the staff and all 
the people. **h The staff deserves a lot of credit working 
down here under real obstacles".   Harvey said his objective 
was to create a better public image for welfare".

The wife of convicted bank robber Lawrence G& Huntley was 
arrested in Phoenix, Ariz&, last week and will be returned to Portland 
to face charges of assault and robbery, Portland detectives said 
Friday.   Mrs& Lavaughn Huntley is accused of driving the 
getaway car used in a robbery of the Woodyard Bros&' Grocery, 
2825 E& Burnside St&, in April of 1959.   Her husband, 
who was sentenced to 15 years in the federal prison at McNeil Island 
last April for robbery of the Hillsdale branch of Multnomah Bank, 
also was charged with the store holdup. Secret Grand Jury indictments 
were returned against the pair last week, Detective Murray Logan 
reported.   The Phoenix arrest culminates more than a year's 
investigation by Detective William Taylor and other officers. Taylor 
said Mrs& Huntley and her husband also will be questioned about 
a series of 15 Portland robberies in spring of 1959 in which the 
holdup men bound their victims with tape before fleeing.   Mrs& 
Huntley was held on $20,000 bond in Phoenix. She was arrested by 
Phoenix Police after they received the indictment papers from Portland 
detectives.

A 12-year-old girl, Susan Elaine Smith, 9329 ~NE Schuyler 
St& was in serious condition Friday at Bess Kaiser Hospital, 
victim of a bicycle-auto collision in the Gateway Shopping Center, 
parking area, Deputy Sheriff W& H& Forsyth reported.

Funeral for William Joseph Brett, 1926 ~NE 50th Ave&, 
who died Thursday in Portland, will be Monday 1 p&m& at the Riverview 
Abbey.   Mr& Brett, born in Brooklyn, N&Y&, 
Dec& 15, 1886, came to Portland in 1920. He owned a logging equipment 
business here from 1923 to 1928, and later became Northwest district 
manager for Macwhyte Co&. He retired in 1958.   Survivors 
are his widow, Alice; a son, William, Seattle, Wash&; three 
sisters, Mrs& Eugene Horstman, Los Angeles, Mrs& Lucy 
Brett Andrew, New York City, and Mrs& Beatrice Kiefferm, New 
York City, and five grandchildren.

Employes of Montgomery Ward + Co& at The Dalles, in a National 
Labor Relations Board election Thursday voted to decertify 
Local 1565, Retail Clerks International Association, ~AFL-~CIO, 
as their collective bargaining agent.   The ~NLRB 
said that of 11 potentially eligible voters eight voted against the 
union, two voted for it, and one vote was challenged.

Monte Brooks, 67, theatrical producer and band leader, collapsed 
and died Thursday in a Lloyd Center restaurant. He lived at 6124 
N& Willamette Blvd&.   For many years he had provided 
music and entertainment for functions throughout the Northwest. These 
included Oregon State Fair, for which he had been booked on and off, 
for 30 years.   He collaborated with many of the big name entertainers 
visiting Portland, among the most recent being Jimmy Durante 
and Phil Silvers.   He had conducted the 20-piece band in 
a series of concerts at Blue Lake park during the summer months.

Mr& Brooks was born in New York, and came to Portland in 1920. 
He planned at one time to enter the legal profession, but gave up 
the plan in favor of the entertainment field.   He was a member 
of Harmony lodge, No& 12, ~AF+~AM, Scottish Rite; Al 
Kader Temple of the Shrine; Order of Elks, Lodge No& 142; 
40 + 8 Voiture, No& 25, Musician's Union, Local 99.

He was a former commander of Willamette Heights, Post, and a member 
of Nevah Sholom Congregation.   Survivors are his widow, 
Tearle; a son, Sheldon Brooks; a daughter, Mrs& Sidney S& 
Stein Jr&, Dorenzo, Calif&; a sister, Mrs& Birdie Gevurtz; 
two brothers, Charley and Aaron Cohn, San Francisco; and 
five grandchildren.   Services will be at 2:30 p&m& Monday 
at Holman + Son Funeral Home, with interment in Neveh Zebek 
cemetery. The family requests that flowers be omitted.

A 16-year-old Portland businessman and his Junior Achievement 
company, have been judged the "Company of the Year" in national 
competition completed this week at Ohio State University, Columbus, 
Ohio.   Tim Larson, a junior at Wilson High School 
and president of Spice-Nice, is the young executive who guided his firm 
to the top-ranking position over the 4,500 other Junior Achievement 
companies in the United States and Canada. The award is the first 
such honor in the 11-year history of ~JA activities in Portland, 
according to Ralph Scolatti, local executive director for Junior 
Achievement.   Spice-Nice, counseled by Georgia-Pacific Corp&, 
had previously taken first-place honors in both local competition 
and the regional conference at San Francisco. The "pocket-size" 
company set records with $2,170 in sales of its products, a selection 
of barbecue spices, and paid stockholders a 20 per cent dividend 
on their investment. 

#YOUNGSTERS DO BUSINESS#

The Junior Achievement 
program is designed to give teenagers practical experience in business 
by allowing them actually to form small companies, under the guidance 
and sponsorship of business firms. The youngsters sell stock, 
produce and sell a product, pay taxes, and show a profit **h or loss **h 
just like full-scale businesses.   National competition was the 
culmination of work which began with the school year last fall and 
continued until just before summer vacation. Participants in the 27 Portland 
companies worked one night a week through the school year, guided 
and counseled by adult advisors drawn from local business and industry. 
Over 400 Portland firms contributed funds for the maintenance 
of Junior Achievement headquarters here.   For winning Larson 
will receive a $100 U&S& Savings Bond from the Junior Achievement 
national organization. His company, Spice-Nice, will receive 
a $250 award, which will be distributed among the 16 charter members. 
#~G-~P MEN SERVED#

Advisors for the "national champion" 
company were John K& Morgan, William H& Baker, Leonard Breuer 
and William F& Stephenson, all of Georgia-Pacific Corp&.

Young Larson is the son of Mr& and Mrs& Lawrence Larson, 
5847 ~SW Nevada Ct&, Portland.   Other members of 
the Portland delegation attending the conference in Columbus are: 
Kathleen Mason, Jefferson high school; Phil Reifenrath, Madison 
high school; Ann Wegener, Madison; Richard E& Cohn, Grant; 
Karen Kolb, Franklin; and Shelby Carlson, Cleveland. 

_HILLSBORO (SPECIAL)_- Washington County's 36th annual fair 
will close Saturday evening with 4-~H and ~FFA awards program 
at 7, public dance at 8 and variety show at 8:30.   On the day's 
schedule are a flower show, 4-~H horsemanship contest and clown 
shows, the latter at 11 a&m& and 3 p&m&.   Attendance 
continued to run ahead of last year's during the five-day show, with 
clear skies helping attract fairgoers.   Exhibition ballroom dancers 
from the studio of Helen Wick Walters of Hillsboro won the 
all-county talent contest. Bill Davis quartet of Hillsboro was second 
and baton twirler Sue Ann Nuttall of Reedville third. Finalists 
from the county's east end failed to place. 

#RESULTS:#

Janet 
Jossy of North Plains won grand champion honors of the 4-~H sheep 
showman contest. Blue ribbons went to Stephanie Shaw of Hillsboro, 
Larry Hinton 
of Beaverton. Joan Zurcher of Hillsboro, Phyllis 
Jossy of North Plains, Jane Cox of North Plains. Kathy Jossy 
of Hillsboro, Carol Jossy of North Plains and Lorlyn and Tom 
Zurcher of Hillsboro.   Tom Day of Beaverton exhibited the 
grand champion 4-~H market hog, a Chester White. Also winning blue 
ribbons were Bob Day of Beaverton, Tony Traxel of Beaverton and 
Steve Hutchins of Banks.   Swine showmanship championship 
went 
to Bob Day, with Tom Day and Hutchins winning other blues.

Charles Reynolds of Pumpkin Ridge was rabbit showmanship champion.

In poultry judging, blues were won by John Nyberg of Tualatin, 
Anne Batchelder of Hillsboro, Jim Shaw of Hillsboro, Stephanie 
Shaw of Hillsboro and Lynn Robinson of Tigard.   Blue 
ribbon for one dozen white eggs was taken by Nyberg.   In 
open class poultry, Donald Wacklin of Sherwood had the champion male 
and female bird and grand champion bird.   John Haase + Son 
of Corneilus was the only entrant in open class swine and swept all 
championships.

Carol Strong, 13, of Cedar Mill cooked the championship 
junior dollar dinner. Millie Jansen, high school senior from 
Verboort, had the championship dollar dinner, and Jody Jaross of 
Hillsboro also won a blue ribbon.   Barbara Borland of Tigard 
took top senior individual home economics honors with a demonstration 
called filbert hats.

About 70 North Providence taxpayers made appeals to the board 
of tax accessors for a review of their 1961 tax assessments during the 
last two days at the town hall in Centredale.   These were 
the last 
two days set aside by the board for hearing appeals. Appeals were heard 
for two days two weeks ago. About 75 persons appeared at that time.

Louis H& Grenier, clerk of the board, said that the appeals 
will be reviewed in December at the time the board is visiting new 
construction sites in the town for assessment purposes. They also 
will visit properties on which appeals have been made.   Any adjustments 
which are made, Mr& Grenier said earlier this month, will 
appear on the balance of the tax bill since most of the town's taxpayers 
take the option of paying quarterly with the balance due next year.

John Pezza, 69, of 734 Hartford Avenue, Providence, complained 
of shoulder pains after an accident in which a car he was driving 
collided with a car driven by Antonio Giorgio, 25, of 12 DeSoto St&, 
Providence, on Greenville Avenue and Cherry Hill Road in 
Johnston yesterday.   Mr& Giorgio had started to turn left off 
Greenville Avenue onto Cherry Hill Road when his car was struck 
by the Pezza car, police said. Both cars were slightly damaged.

Mr& Pezza was taken to a nearby Johnston physician, Dr& Allan 
A& DiSimone, who treated him. Mr& Giorgio was 
uninjured.

Thieves yesterday ransacked a home in the Garden Hills section 
of Cranston and stole an estimated $3,675 worth of furs, jewels, 
foreign coins and American dollars.   Mr& and Mrs& Stephen 
M& Kochanek reported the theft at their home on 41 Garden Hills 
Drive at about 6 last night. They told police the intruders took a 
mink coat worth $700, a black Persian lamb jacket worth $450; a wallet 
with $450 in it; a collection of English, French and German 
coins, valued at $500; four rings, a watch and a set of pearl earrings.

One of the rings was a white gold band with a diamond setting, 
valued at $900. The others were valued at $325, $75 and $65. The 
watch was valued at $125 and the earrings at $85.   The Kochaneks 
told police they left home at 8 a&m& and returned about 5:45 
p&m& and found the house had been entered. Patrolman Robert J& 
Nunes, who investigated, said the thieves broke in through the back 
door. Drawers and cabinets in two bedrooms and a sewing room were ransacked.

The city sewer maintenance division said efforts will be made 
Sunday to clear a stoppage in a sewer connection at Eddy and Elm Streets 
responsible for dumping raw sewage into the Providence River.

The division said it would be impossible to work on the line 
until then because of the large amount of acid sewage from jewelry plants 
in the area flowing through the line, heavy vehicle traffic on Eddy 
Street and tide conditions.

A two-family house at 255 Brook Street has been purchased by 
Brown University from Lawrence J& Sullivan, according to a deed 
filed Monday at City Hall. F& Morris Cochran, university vice 
president and business manager, said the house has been bought to provide 
rental housing for faculty families, particularly for those here 
for a limited time.

Employes of Pawtucket's garbage and rubbish collection contractor 
picketed the firm's incinerator site yesterday in the second 
day of a strike for improved wages and working conditions.   Thomas 
Rotelli, head of Rhode Island Incinerator Service, Inc&, said 
four of the company's eight trucks were making collections with 
both newly hired and regular workers.   Sydney Larson, a staff 
representative for the United Steel Workers, which the firm's 25 
workers joined before striking, said the state Labor Relations Board 
has been asked to set up an election to pick a bargaining agent.

A 62-year-old Smithfield man, Lester E& Stone of 19 Beverly 
Circle, was in satisfactory condition last night at Our Lady of 
Fatima Hospital, North Providence, with injuries suffered when a 
car he was driving struck a utility pole on Woonasquatucket Avenue 
in North Providence near Stevens Street.   Mr& Stone suffered 
fractured ribs and chest cuts, hospital authorities said. He was 
taken to the hospital by the North Providence ambulance.   Before 
hitting the pole, Mr& Stone's car brushed against a car driven 
by Alva W& Vernava, 21, of 23 Maple Ave&, North Providence, 
tearing away the rear bumper and denting the left rear fender of 
the Vernava car, police said. Mr& Vernava was uninjured.   The 
impact with the utility pole caused a brief power failure in the immediate 
area of the accident. One house was without power for about 
half an hour, a Narragansett Electric Co& spokesman said. The power 
was off for about five minutes in houses along Smith Street as far 
away as Fruit Hill Avenue shortly before 5 p&m& when the accident 
occurred.

The fight over the Warwick School Committee's appointment 
of a coordinator of audio-visual education may go to the state Supreme 
Court, it appeared last night.   Two members of the Democratic-endorsed 
majority on the school board said they probably would vote 
to appeal a ruling by the state Board of Education, which said yesterday 
that the school committee acted improperly in its appointment of 
the coordinator, Francis P& Nolan 3rd, the Democratic-endorsed 
committee chairman, could not be reached for comment.   In its 
ruling, the state Board of Education upheld Dr& Michael F& Walsh, 
state commissioner of education, who had ruled previously that 
the Warwick board erred when it named Maurice F& Tougas as coordinator 
of audio-visual education without first finding that the school 
superintendent's candidate was not suitable.   Supt& Clarence 
S& Taylor had recommended Roger I& Vermeersch for the post.

Milton and Rosella Lovett of Cranston were awarded $55,000 
damages from the state in Superior Court yesterday for industrial property 
which they owned at 83 Atwells Ave&, Providence, and which 
was condemned for use in construction of Interstate Route 95.

The award was made by Judge Fred B& Perkins who heard their 
petition without a jury by agreement of the parties.   The award, 
without interest, compared with a valuation of $57,500 placed on the 
property by the property owners' real estate expert, and a valuation 
of $52,500 placed on it by the state's expert.   The property 
included a one-story brick manufacturing building on 8,293 square feet 
of land.   Saul Hodosh represented the owners. Atty& Gen& 
J& Joseph Nugent appeared for the state.

Santa's lieutenants in charge of the Journal-Bulletin Santa 
Claus Fund are looking for the usual generous response this year 
from Cranston residents.   Persons who find it convenient may send 
their contributions to the Journal-Bulletin's Cranston office 
at 823 Park Avenue. All contributed will be acknowledged.   The 
fund's statewide quota this year is $8,250 to provide Christmas 
gifts for needy youngsters. Scores of Cranston children will be remembered.

Cranston residents have been generous contributors to 
the fund over the years. Public school children have adopted the fund 
as one of their favorite Christmas charities and their pennies, nickels, 
dimes and quarters aid greatly in helping Santa to reach the fund's 
goal.

Bernard Parrillo, 20, of 19 Fletcher Ave&, Cranston, was 
admitted to Roger Williams Hospital shortly before 11:30 a&m& 
yesterday after a hunting accident in which a shotgun he was carrying 
discharged against his heel.   Mr& Parrillo was given first 
aid at Johnston Hose 1. (Thornton) where he had been driven by a companion. 
The two had been hunting in the Simmonsville area of town 
and Mr& Parrillo dropped the gun which fired as it struck the ground.

Hospital officials said the injury was severe but the youth 
was in good condition last night.

A check for $4,177.37 representing the last payment of a $50,000 
federal grant to Rhode Island Hospital was presented to the hospital 
administrator, Oliver G& Pratt, yesterday by Governor Notte.

The hospital has used the money to assist in alterations on 
the fifth floor of the Jane Brown Hospital, part of Rhode Island 
Hospital. The work added eight beds to the hospital, giving it a total 
capacity of 646 general beds.

Vincent Sorrentino, founder and board chairman of the Uncas 
Mfg& Co&, has been designated a Cavaliere of the Order of Merit 
of the Republic of Italy.   The decoration will be presented 
by A& Trichieri, Italian consul general in Boston, at a ceremony 
at 2:30 p& m& on Dec& 7 
at the plant, which this year is celebrating 
its golden anniversary. About 500 employes of the firm will be 
on hand to witness bestowal of the honor upon Mr& Sorrentino.

Mr& Sorrentino will be honored on the evening of Dec& 7 
at a dinner to be given by the Aurora Club at the Sheraton-Biltmore 
Hotel.

The Newport-based destroyer picket escort Kretchmer has arrived 
back at Newport after three months' patrol in North Atlantic 
waters marked by mercy jobs afloat and ashore.   On Sept& 6, 
the Kretchmer rescued the crew of a trawler they found drifting on a 
life raft after they had abandoned a sinking ship. In August while stopping 
in Greenock, Scotland, three members of the crew on liberty 
rendered first aid to a girl who fell from a train. Local authorities 
credited the men with saving the girl's life. 

_BIRMINGHAM, ALA&- (~AP)_- 
The ~FBI yesterday arrested 
on a perjury charge one of the members of the jury that failed to reach 
a verdict in the "Freedom Rider" bus burning trial four weeks 
ago.   U&S& Attorney Macon Weaver said the federal complaint, 
charged that the juror gave false information when asked about 
Ku Klux Klan membership during selection of jury.   He identified 
the man as Lewis Martin Parker, 59, a farmer of Hartselle, 
Ala&.   Eight men were tried together in U&S& District 
Court in Anniston, Ala&, on charges of interfering with interstate 
transportation and conspiracy growing out of a white mob's attack 
on a Greyhound bus carrying the first of the Freedom Riders. The 
bus was 
burned outside Anniston.   One of the eight defendants was 
freed on a directed verdict of acquittal. A mistrial was declared in 
the case against the other seven when the jury was unable to agree on 
a verdict.   The arrest of Mr& Parker marks the third charge 
of wrongdoing involving the jury that heard the case.   The first 
incident occurred before the trial got under way when Judge H& 
Hobart Grooms told the jury panel he had heard reports of jury-tampering 
efforts.   He asked members of the panel to tell him if anyone 
outside the court had spoken to them about the case. Two members 
of the panel later told in court about receiving telephone calls at their 
homes from anonymous persons expressing interest in the trial. Neither 
was seated on the jury.   Then, when the case went to the 
jury, the judge excused one of the jurors, saying the juror had told him 
he had been accosted by masked men at his motel the night before the 
trial opened. The juror said the masked men had advised him to be lenient. 
The judge replaced the juror with an alternate.   No formal 
charges have been filed as a result of either of the two reported 
incidents.   At the opening of the trial, the jury panel was questioned 
as a group by Mr& Weaver about Ku Klux Klan connections.

One member of the panel- not Mr& Parker- indicated 
he had been a member of the ~KKK at one time. He was not seated 
on the jury.   The perjury charge against Mr& Parker carries 
a maximum penalty of $2,000 fine and five years imprisonment on conviction. 

_NEW YORK- (~UPI)_- The New York University Board of 
Trustees has elected the youngest president in the 130-year history 
of ~NYU, it was announced yesterday.   The new president is 
37-year-old Dr& James McN& Hester, currently dean of the ~NYU 
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. He will take over his 
new post Jan& 1.   Dr& Hester, also one of the youngest 
men ever to head a major American university, succeeds Dr& Carroll 
V& Newsom who resigned last September to join Prentice-Hall Inc& 
publishing firm.   Dr& Hester, of Princeton, N&J&, 
is a native of Chester, Pa& He joined ~NYU in September, 
1960. Prior to that he was associated with Long Island University 
in Brooklyn. 

_ASILOMAR, MARCH 26_ Vast spraying programs conducted by "technicians 
with narrow training and little wisdom" are endangering crops 
and wildlife, Carl W& Buchheister, president of the National Audubon 
Society, said today.   "It is like handing a loaded .45 
automatic to an 8-year-old and telling him to run out and play", he 
commented.   Buchheister told delegates to the West Coast Audubon 
Convention that aerial spraying in Louisiana failed to destroy 
its target, the fire ant.   "But it did destroy the natural 
controls of a borer and released a new plague that wrecked a sugar cane 
crop", he said.   The conservation leader said other mistakes 
in spraying had caused serious damage in Ohio and Wyoming. There 
have even been serious errors in the U& S& Forest Service, 
whose 
officials pride themselves in their scientific training, he added.

"The news of their experiments reach the farmers who, forgetting 
that birds are the most efficient natural enemies of insects and rodents, 
are encouraged to try to get rid of all birds that occasionally 
peck their grapes or their blueberries", Buchheister told the delegates.

In addition to urging greater restrictions on aerial spraying, 
Buchheister called for support of the Wilderness bill, creation 
of national seashore parks, including Point Reyes; preservation 
of the wetlands where birds breed; a pesticides co-ordination act; 
stronger water pollution control programs, and Federal ratification 
of an international convention to halt pollution of the sea by 
oil.

The Reed Rogers Da Fonta Wild Life Sanctuary in Marin 
county on Friday officially became the property of the National Audubon 
Society.   Mrs& Norman Livermore, president of the Marin 
Conservation League, handed over the deed to the 645-acre tidelands 
tract south of Greenwood Beach to Carl W& Buchheister, president 
of the Society.   The presentation was made before several 
hundred persons at the annual meeting of the League at Olney Hall, 
College of Marin, Kentfield.   Buchheister pledged the land 
would be an "inviolate" sanctuary for all birds, animals and plants.

Seventeen years ago today, German scientist Willy Fiedler climbed 
into a makeshift cockpit installed in a ~V-1 rocket-bomb that 
was attached to the underbelly of a Heinkel bomber.   The World 
War /2, German bomber rolled down a runway and took off.

The only way Fiedler could get back to earth alive was to fly the 
pulse jet missile and land it on the airstrip. This had never been done 
before.   Now a quiet-spoken, middle-aged man, Fiedler is an 
aeronautical engineer for Lockheed's Missiles and Space Division 
at Sunnyvale, where he played a key role in the development of the 
Navy's Polaris missile.   He sat in his office yesterday and 
recalled that historic flight in 1944.   "The first two pilots 
had crashed", he said. "I had developed the machines and therefore 
knew them. It was time to go up myself".   Fiedler was then 
technical director of Hitler's super-secret "Reichenberg project", 
which remained unknown to the Allies until after the war.

About 200 of the special ~V-1 rocket-bombs were to be made ready 
for manned flight with an explosive warhead. The target was Allied 
shipping- a desperate effort to stave off the Allied invasion of 
Europe.   The success of the project depended upon Fiedler's 
flight.   Squeezed into the few cubic feet normally filled by 
the rocket's automatic guidance mechanism, the scientist waited while 
the bomber gained altitude.   At 12,000 feet, Fiedler signaled 
"release", and started the roaring pulse-jet engine- then streaked 
away from beneath the Heinkel.   To the German pilot in the 
bomber the rocket became a faint black speck, hurtling through the 
sky at the then incredible speed of 420 m&p&h&.   It was probably 
man's first successful flight in a missile. "She flew beautifully", 
said Fiedler. "There was only one power control- a valve 
to adjust the fuel flow. I had exactly 20 minutes to get down to 
the test strip".   Using a steering system that controlled the 
modified rocket's tail surfaces and wings equipped with ailerons, 
Fiedler was to land the missile on a skid especially bolted under the 
fuselage.   He managed to maneuver the missile to a landing speed 
of 200 m&p&h&- fast even for a modern jet plane touchdown- 
and banked into the airfield.   Moments later the ~V-1 skimmed 
across the landing strip, edging closer and closer to a touchdown- 
then in a streamer of dust it landed.   Fiedler went on to make 
several other test flights before German pilots took over the Reichenberg 
missiles.   The missiles were to be armed with an underwater 
bomb. Pilots would steer them in a suicide dive into the water, 
striking below the waterline of individual ships.   A crack corps 
of 50 pilots was formed from the ranks of volunteers, but the project 
was halted before the end of the war, and the missiles later fell into 
Allied hands.   Now a family man with three children, Fiedler 
lives in a quiet residential area near the Lockheed plant at Sunnyvale. 
His spare time is spent in soaring gliders.   "It's 
so quiet", he said, "so slow, serene- and so challenging".

John Di Massimo has been elected president of the 1961 Columbus 
Day Celebration Committee, it was announced yesterday. 
Other officers are Angelo J& Scampini, vice president, Joseph V& 
Arata, treasurer, and Fred J& Casassa, secretary. 
Judge 
John B& Molinari was named chairman of the executive committee. 
Elected to the board of directors were:   Elios P& Anderlini, 
Attilio Beronio, Leo M& Bianco, Frederic Campagnoli, 
Joseph Cervetto, Armond J& De Martini, Grace Duhagon, John 
P& Figone, John P& Figone Jr&, Stephen Mana, John Moscone, 
Calude Perasso, Angelo Petrini, Frank Ratto, and George R& 
Reilly.

Dr& Albert Schweitzer, world-famous theologian and 
medical 
missionary, has endorsed an Easter March for Disarmament which begins 
tomorrow in Sunnyvale.   Members of the San Francisco American 
Friends Service, a Quaker organization, will march to San Francisco 
for a rally in Union Square at 2 p& m& Saturday.

In a letter to the American Friends Service, Dr& Schweitzer 
wrote:   "Leading Nations of the West and of the East keep 
busy making newer nuclear weapons to defend themselves in the event 
the constantly threatening nuclear war should break out.   "They 
cannot do otherwise than live in dread of each other since these weapons 
imply the possibility of such grisly surprise attack. The only 
way out of this state of affairs is agreement to abolish nuclear weapons; 
otherwise no peace is possible.   "Governments apparently 
do not feel obligated to make the people adequately aware of this danger; 
therefore we need guardians to demonstrate against the ghastly 
stupidity of nuclear weapons and jolt the people out of their complacency".

A federal grand jury called 10 witnesses yesterday in an investigation 
of the affairs of Ben Stein, 47, who collected big fees as 
a "labor consultant" and operator of a janitors' service. 
Before he testified for 20 minutes, Stein, who lives at 3300 Lake 
Shore dr&, admitted to reporters that he had a wide acquaintance with 
crime syndicate hoodlums. 

#GLIMCO A BUDDY#

Among his gangland 
buddies, he said, were 
Joseph [Joey] Glimco, a mob labor racketeer, 
and four gang gambling chiefs, Gus [Slim] Alex, Ralph Pierce, 
Joe [Caesar] DiVarco, and Jimmy [Monk] Allegretti. 
Another hoodlum, Louis Arger, drew $39,000 from Stein's janitor 
firm, the National Maintenance company, in three years ending in 1959, 
Stein disclosed in an interview.   "I put Arger on the payroll 
because he promised to get my firm the stevedore account at Navy 
pier", Stein said. "But Arger never was able to produce it, so 
I cut him off my payroll". 

#CONNECTION IS SOUGHT#

Other witnesses, 
after appearances before the jury, which reportedly is probing 
into possible income tax violations, disclosed that government prosecutors 
were attempting to connect Stein and his company with a number of 
gangsters, including Glimco and Alex.   The federal lawyers, 
according to their witnesses, also were tracing Stein's fees as a 
labor consultant. Under scrutiny, two of the witnesses said, were payments 
and loans to Stein's National Maintenance company at 543 Madison 
st&.   The company supplies janitors and workmen for 
McCormick 
Place and factories, liquor firms, and other businesses. 

#LEE 
A WITNESS#

Among the witnesses were Ed J& Lee, director of 
McCormick Place; Jerome Leavitt, a partner in the Union Liquor 
company, 3247 S& Kedzie av&, Dominic Senese, a teamster union 
slugger who is a buddy of Stein and a cousin of Tony Accardo, onetime 
gang chief; and Frank W& Pesce, operator of a Glimco dominated 
deodorant firm, the Best Sanitation and Supply company, 1215 
Blue Island av&.   Lee said he had told the jury that he made 
an agreement in April with Stein to supply and supervise janitors 
in McCormick Place. Stein's fee, Lee said, was 10 per cent of 
the janitors' pay. Stein estimated this amount at "about $1,500 
or $1,600 a month". 

#A $12,500 PAYMENT#

Leavitt, as he entered 
the jury room, said he was prepared to answer questions about the $12,500 
his liquor firm paid to Stein for "labor consultant work" with 
five unions which organized Leavitt's workers. Leavitt identified 
the unions as a warehouseman's local, the teamsters union, a salesman's 
union, the janitors' union, and a bottling workers' union.

Government attorneys, Leavitt said, have questioned him closely 
about "five or six loans" totaling about $40,000 which the liquor 
company made to Stein in the last year.   All of the loans, 
in amounts up to $5,000 each, have been repaid by Stein, according 
to Leavitt. Stein said he needed the money, Leavitt said, to "meet 
the payroll" at National Maintenance company.   The deodorant 
firm run by Pesce has offices in the headquarters of Glimco's 
discredited taxi drivers' union at 1213-15 Blue Island av&.

The radiation station of the Chicago board of health recorded 
a reading of 1 micro-microcurie of radiation per cubic meter of air over 
Chicago yesterday.   The reading, which has been watched 
with 
interest since Russia's detonation of a super bomb Monday, was 4 
on Tuesday and 7 last Saturday, a level far below the danger point, 
according to the board of health.   The weather bureau has estimated 
that radioactive fallout from the test might arrive here next week. 
A board of health spokesman said there is no reason to believe that 
an increase in the level here will occur as a result of the detonation.

Curtis Allen Huff, 41, of 1630 Lake av&, Wilmette, was arrested 
yesterday on a suppressed federal warrant charging him with embezzling 
an undetermined amount of money from the First Federal Savings 
and Loan association, 1 S& Dearborn st&, where he formerly 
was employed 
as an attorney.   Federal prosecutors estimated that the 
amount may total $20,000, altho a spokesman for the association estimated 
its loss at approximately $10,000. 

#LIEN PAYMENTS INVOLVED# 

Huff's attorney, Antone F& Gregorio, quoted his client as saying 
that part of the embezzlement represented money paid to Huff, as 
attorney for the loan association, in satisfaction of mechanic's liens 
on property on which the association held mortgages.   Huff told 
Gregorio that he took the money to pay "the ordinary bills and 
expenses of suburban living".   Huff, who received a salary of 
$109 a week from the loan association from October of 1955 until September 
of this year, said that his private practice was not lucrative. 
Huff lives with his wife, Sue, and their four children, 6 to 10 years 
old, in a $25,000 home with a $17,000 mortgage. 

#CHARGE LISTS 3 
CHECKS#

The complaint on which the warrant was issued was filed by 
Leo Blaber, an attorney for the association.   The shortage was 
discovered after Huff failed to report for work on Sept& 18. On 
that date, according to Gregorio, Huff left his home and took a room 
in the New Lawrence hotel at 1020 Lawrence av&. There, Gregorio 
said, Huff wrote a complete statement of his offense.   Later, 
Huff cashed three checks for $100 each at the Sherman House, using 
a credit card. All bounced.   When Huff attempted to cash another 
$100 check there Monday, hotel officials called police. 

_BONN, OCT& 24 (~UPI)_- Greece and West Germany have ratified 
an agreement under which Germany will pay $28,700,000 to Greek 
victims of Nazi persecution, it was announced today.

PROBABLY THE hottest thing that has hit the Dallas investment 
community in years was the Morton Foods stock issue, which was 
sold to the public during the past week.   For many reasons, the 
demand to buy shares in the Dallas-headquartered company was tremendous. 
It was not a case of the investment bankers having to sell the 
stock; it was more one of allotting a few shares to a number of customers 
and explaining to others why they had no more to sell.   Investors 
who wanted 100 shares in many cases ended up with 25, and customers 
who had put in a bid to buy 400 shares found themselves with 100 
and counted themselves lucky to get that many.   In fact, very 
few customers, anywhere in the nation, were able to get more than 100 
shares. Some Dallas investment firms got only 100 shares, for all of 
their customers.   A measure of how hot the stock was, can be 
found in what happened to it on the market as soon as trading began.

The stock was sold in the underwriting at a price of $12.50 a share. 
The first over-the-counter trade Wednesday afternoon at Eppler, 
Guerin + Turner, the managing underwriter, was at $17 a share. And 
from that the stock moved right on up until it was trading Thursday 
morning at around $22 a share.   But the Morton Foods issue 
was hot long before it was on the market. Indeed, from the moment the 
reports of the coming issue first started circulating in Dallas last 
January, the inquiries and demand for the stock started building up.

Letters by the reams came in from investment firms all over the 
nation, all of them wanting to get a part of the shares that would 
be sold (185,000 to the public at $12.50, with another 5,000 reserved 
for Morton Foods employes at $11.50 a share).   There was even 
a cable in French from a bank in Switzerland that had somehow learned 
about the Dallas stock offering. "We subscribe 500 shares of Morton 
Foods of Texas. Cable confirmation", it said translated. But 
E&G&T& could not let the Swiss bank have even 10 shares.

After it allotted shares to 41 underwriters and 52 selling group 
members from coast to coast there were not many shares for anyone.

But the result of it all was, E&G&T& partner Dean Guerin 
believes, an effective distribution of the stock to owners all 
over the nation.   "I feel confident the stock will qualify for 
the 'national list'", he said, meaning its market price would 
be quoted regularly in newspapers all over the country.   He was 
also pleased with the wide distribution because he thought it proved 
again his argument that Dallas investment men can do just as good a 
job as the big New York investment bankers claim only they can do.

But what made the Morton Foods stock issue such a hot one?

The answer is that it was a combination of circumstances.

First, the general stock market has been boiling upward for the last 
few months, driving stocks of all kinds up. As a result, it is not 
easy to find a stock priced as the Morton issue was priced (at roughly 
10 times 1960 earnings, to yield a little over 5 per cent on the 64~c 
anticipated dividend).   Second, the "potato chip industry" 
has caught the fancy of investors lately, and until Morton Foods 
came along there were only two potato chip stocks- Frito and H& 
W& Lay- on the market.   Both of those have had dynamic run-ups 
in price on the market in recent months, both were selling at higher 
price-earnings and yield bases than Morton was coming to market 
at, and everyone who knew anything about it expected the Morton stock 
to have a fast run-up.   And third, the potato chip industry has 
taken on the flavor of a "growth" industry in the public mind of 
late. Foods, which long had been considered "recession resistant" 
but hardly dynamic stocks, have been acting like growth stocks, going 
to higher price-earnings ratios.   The potato chip industry these 
days is growing, not only as a 
result of population increase and public 
acceptance of convenience foods, but also because of a combination 
of circumstances 
that has led to growth by merger.   The history of the 
U&S& potato chip industry is that many of today's successful 
companies got started during the deep depression days. Those that remain 
are those that were headed by strong executives, men with the abilities 
to last almost 30 years in the competitive survival of the fittest.

But today many of those men are reaching retirement age and 
suddenly realizing that they face an estate tax problem with their 
closely held companies and also that they have no second-echelon management 
in their firms.   So they go looking for mergers with other 
firms that have publicly quoted stock, and almost daily they pound on 
the doors of firms like Frito.   All those things combined to 
make the Morton Foods stock the hot issue that it was and is.

Now, if Morton's newest product, a corn chip known as Chip-o's, 
turns out to sell as well as its stock did, the stock may turn out 
to be worth every cent of the prices that the avid buyers bid it up 
to. 
Dallas and North Texas is known world-wide as the manufacturing and 
distribution center of cotton gin machinery and supplies, valued in the 
millions of dollars.   More than 10 companies maintain facilities 
in Dallas and one large manufacturer is located to the north at 
Sherman.   It is no coincidence that the Texas Cotton Ginner's 
Association is meeting here this week for the 46th time in their 
52-year history.   The exhibition of cotton ginning machinery at 
the State Fair grounds is valued at more than a million dollars. It 
weighs in the tons, so the proximity of factory and exhibition area 
makes it possible for an outstanding exhibit each year.   A modern 
cotton gin plant costs in the neighborhood of $250,000, and it's 
a safe assumption that a large percentage of new gins in the U&S& 
and foreign countries contain machinery made in this area. 
The Murray Co& of Texas, Inc&, originated in Dallas in 1896. 
They've occupied a 22-acre site since the early 1900's. More than 
700 employes make gin machinery that's sold anywhere cotton is grown.

Murray makes a complete line of ginning equipment except 
for driers and cleaners, and this machinery is purchased from a Dallas-based 
firm.   The Continental Gin Co& began operations in 
Dallas in 1899. The present company is a combination of several smaller 
ones that date back to 1834.   Headquarters is in Birmingham, 
Ala&. Factories are located here and in Prattville, Ala&. 
About 
40 per cent of the manufacturing is done at the Dallas plant by 
more than 200 employes.   The company sells a complete line of 
gin machinery all over the cotton-growing world.   Hardwicke-Etter 
Co& of Sherman makes a full line of gin machinery and equipment. 
The firm recently expanded domestic sales into the Southeastern 
states as a result of an agreement with Cen-Tennial Gin Co&. They 
export also.   The company began operation in 1900 with hardware 
and oil mill supplies. In 1930, they began making cotton processing 
equipment. Presently, Hardwicke-Etter employs 300-450 people, depending 
on the season of the year.   The Lummus Cotton Gin Co& 
has had a sales and service office in Dallas since 1912. Factory 
operations are in Columbus, Ga&. The district office here employs 
about 65.   The Moss Gordin Lint Cleaner Co& and Gordin 
Unit System of Ginning have joint headquarters here. The cleaner 
equipment firm began operations in 1953 and the unit system, which 
turns out a complete ginning system, began operations in 1959. 
Gordin manufacturing operations are in Lubbock.   The John E& 
Mitchell Co& began work in Dallas in 1928. The firm is prominent 
in making equipment for cleaning seed cotton, driers, and heaters, 
and they lay claim to being the first maker (1910) of boil extraction 
equipment.   The increase in mechanical harvesting of cotton makes 
cleaning and drying equipment a must for modern gin operation.

Mitchell employs a total of about 400 people. They export cotton 
ginning machinery.   The Hinckley Gin Supply Co& is a maker 
of "overhead equipment". This includes driers, cleaners, burr 
extractors, separators and piping that's located above gin stands in 
a complete gin.   The firm began operations back in 1925 and sells 
equipment in the central cotton belt, including the Mississippi 
Delta.   The Cen-Tennial Gin Supply Co& has home offices 
and factory facilities here. They make gin saws and deal in parts, supplies 
and some used gin machinery.   The Stacy Co& makes cleaning 
and drying equipment for sale largely in Texas. They've been 
in Dallas since 1921.   Cotton Belt Gin Service, Inc& 
of Dallas makes gin saws and started here 14 years ago. They distribute 
equipment in 11 states. The firm also handles gin and oil mill supplies 
such as belting, bearings, etc&.   Cotton processing equipment 
is a sizable segment of Dallas business economy. 
New car sales in Dallas County during March showed slight signs of 
recovering from the doldrums which have characterized sales this year.

Registrations of new cars in Dallas County cracked the 3,000 
mark in March for the first time this year.   Totaling 3,399, 
sales jumped 14 per cent over February's 2,963. However, compared 
with March 1960 new car sales of 4,441, this March was off 23 per 
cent.   On a quarter-to-quarter comparison, the first quarter of 
1961 total of 9,273 cars was 21 per cent behind the previous year's 
3-month total of 11,744.   This year-to-year decline for Dallas 
County closely follows the national trend- estimated sales of domestic 
cars in the U&S& for first three months of 1961 were about 
1,212,000 or 80 per cent of the total in the first quarter a year earlier.

With the March pickup, dealers are optimistic that the 
April-June quarter will equal or top last year. The March gain plus 
this optimism has been encouraging enough to prompt auto makers to boost 
production schedules for the next quarter.   On the local level, 
compacts continue to grab a larger share of the market at the expense 
of lower-priced standard models and foreign cars. Only three standard 
models- Buick, Chrysler, and Mercury- had slight year-to-year 
gains in March sales in the county.

The top 3 students from 11 participating Dallas County high 
schools will be honored by the Dallas Sales Executives Club at a banquet 
at 6 p&m& Tuesday in the Sam Houston Room of the Sheraton-Dallas 
Hotel as the club winds up its annual Distributive Education 
project.   Now in its third year, the program is designed 
to provide a laboratory for those youngsters seeking careers in marketing 
and salesmanship. Business firms provide 20 weeks of practical employment 
to supplement classroom instruction in these fields.   More 
than 500 juniors and seniors are taking part in the program and 100 
firms offer jobs on an educational rather than a need basis. 
Principal address will be delivered by Gerald T& Owens, national 
sales manager for Isodine Pharmical Corp& of New York. 
The 33 honored students are: Mike Trigg, Raymond Arrington, and 
Ronald Kaminsky of Bryan Adams, Janice Whitney, Fil Terral, 
and Carl David Page of W& H& Adamson; Bill Burke, Tommie 
Freeman, and Lawrence Paschall of N& R& Crozier Tech& 
Paulah 
Thompson, Gerald Kestner, and Nancy Stephenson of Hillcrest; 
Arnold Hayes, Mary Ann Shay, and Lloyd Satterfield of Thomas 
Jefferson;   William Cluck, Deloris Carrel Carty, and 
Edna Earl Eaton of North Dallas; Patricia Ann Neal, Johnny 
Carruthers, and David McLauchlin of Rylie of Seagoville; David 
Wolverton, Sharon Flanagan, and James Weaver of W& W& Samuels; 
William Austin, Gary Hammond, and Ronnie Davis of South 
Oak Cliff; Bill Eaton, Carolyn Milton, and Ronnie Bert Stone 
of Sunset; and Charles Potter, Ronnie Moore, and Robert Bailey 
of Woodrow Wilson.

The Kennedy administration's new housing and urban renewal 
proposals, particularly their effect on the Federal Housing Administration, 
came under fire in Dallas last week.   The Administration's 
proposals, complex and sweeping as they are, all deal with fringe 
areas of the housing market rather than its core, stated Caron 
S& Stallard, first vice-president of the Mortgage Bankers Association 
of America. 

_SANTA BARBARA_- "The present recovery movement will gather steady 
momentum to lift the economy to a new historic peak by this autumn", 
Beryl W& Sprinkel, economist of Harris Trust + Savings 
Bank, Chicago, predicted at the closing session here Tuesday of Investment 
Bankers Assn&, California group, conference.   Another 
speaker, William H& Draper, Jr&, former Under Secretary 
of the Army and now with the Palo Alto venture capital firm of Draper, 
Gaither + Anderson, urged the U&S& to "throw down the 
gauntlet of battle to communism and tell Moscow bluntly we won't be 
pushed arouny any more". He urged support for President Kennedy's 
requests for both defense and foreign aid appropriations. #'NOT 
FLASH IN PAN'#

Sprinkel told conferees that the recent improvement 
in economic activity was not a "temporary flash in the pan" 
but the beginning of a substantial cyclical expansion that will carry 
the economy back to full employment levels and witness a renewal of our 
traditional growth pattern.   "In view of the current expansion, 
which promises to be substantial" he said the odds appear to favor 
rising interest rates in coming months, but "there is reason to 
believe the change will not be as abrupt as in 1958 nor as severe as 
in late 1959 and 1960". 

#THESIS REFUTED#

Sprinkel strongly refuted 
the current neo-stagnationist thesis that we are facing a future of 
limited and slow growth, declaring that this pessimism "is based 
on 
very limited and questionable evidence".   Rather than viewing 
the abortive recovery in 1959-60 as a reason for believing we have lost 
prospects for growth", he said "it should be viewed as a lesson 
well learned which will increase the probability of substantial improvement 
in this recovery". 

#DANGER CITED#

He cautioned that "the 
greater danger in this recovery may be excessive stimulation by government 
which could bring moderate inflation".   The economist 
does not look for a drastic switch in the budget during this recovery 
and believes it "even more unlikely that the Federal Reserve will 
aggressively tighten monetary policy in the early phases of the upturn 
as was the case in 1958".   The unsatisfactory 1958-60 expansion, 
he said, was not due to inadequate growth forces inherent in our 
economy but rather to the adverse effect of inappropriate economic policies 
combined with retrenching decisions resulting from the steel strike. 

#SACRIFICES NEEDED#

Draper declared, "As I see it, this 
country has never faced such great dangers as threaten us today. We 
must justify our heritage. We must be ready for any needed sacrifice".

He said that from his experience of two years with Gen& 
Clay in West Berlin administration, that "Russia respects our show 
of strength, but that presently we're not acting as we should and 
must".   He called the Cuban tractor plan an outright blackmail 
action, and noted that in war "you can't buy yourself out and 
that's what we're trying to do".   While he declined to suggest, 
how, he said that sooner or later we must get rid of Castro, 
"for unless we do we're liable to face similar situations in this 
hemisphere. Its the start of a direct threat to our own security and 
I don't believe we can permit that". 

_NEW YORK (~AP)_- {Stock market Tuesday staged a technical 
recovery, erasing all of Monday's losses in the Associated Press 
average and making the largest gain in about two weeks.}   Analysts 
saw the move as a continuation of the recovery drive that got under 
way late Monday afternoon when the list sank to a hoped-for "support 
level" represented by around 675 in the Dow Jones industrial 
average. It was a level at which some of the investors standing on 
the sidelines were thought likely to buy the pivotal issues represented 
in the averages. 

#SOME GOOD NEWS#

Although it looked like a routine 
technical snapback to Wall Streeters it was accompanied by some 
good news. A substantial rise in new orders and sales of durable goods 
was reported for last month.   Treasury Secretary Douglas Dillon 
said the economy is expected to advance by a whopping 8% next 
year, paving the way for lower taxes.   The Dow Jones industrial 
average advanced 7.19 to 687.87.   Of 1,253 issues traded, 695 
advanced and 354 declined. New highs for the year totaled nine and 
new lows 14.   Trading was comparatively dull throughout the day. 
Volume dipped to 3.28 million shares from 3.98 million Monday.

A $25 billion advertising budget in an $800 billion economy was 
envisioned for the 1970s here Tuesday by Peter G& Peterson, head 
of one of the world's greatest camera firms, in a key address before 
the American Marketing Assn&.   However, Peterson, president 
of Bell + Howell, warned 800 U&S& marketing leaders attending 
a national conference at the Ambassador, that the future will 
belong to the industrialist of creative and "unconventional wisdom". 

#CREATION'S NEEDED#

"As we look to the $800 billion economy 
that is predicted for 1970 and the increase of about 40% in consumer 
expenditures that will be required to reach that goal, management 
can well be restless about how this tremendous volume and number of new 
products will be created and marketed", Peterson said.   "With 
this kind of new product log-jam, the premium for brilliant 
product 
planning will obviously go up geometrically".   The executive 
paid tribute to research and development and technology for their 
great contributions in the past, but he also cautioned industry that 
they tend to be great equalizers because they move at a fairly even pace 
within an industry and fail to give it the short-term advantage which 
it often needs. 

#NOTHING TO FEAR#

Peterson said America has nothing 
to fear in world competition if it dares to be original in both 
marketing and product ideas. He cited, as an example, how the American 
camera industry has been able to meet successfully the competition 
of Japan despite lower Japanese labor costs, by improving its production 
know-how and technology.   He also used as an example the 
manufacturer who introduced an all-automatic camera in Germany, with 
the result that it became the best selling camera in the German 
market.

Election of Howard L& Taylor to membership in Pacific Coast 
Stock Exchange, effective Tuesday, has been announced by Thomas 
P& Phelan, president of the exchange.   Taylor, president 
and voting stockholder of Taylor and Co&, Beverly Hills, has been 
active in the securities business since 1925.

Union Oil Co& of California Tuesday offered $120 million 
in debentures to the public through a group of underwriters headed by 
Dillon, Read + Co&, to raise money to retire a similar amount held 
by Gulf Oil Corp&.   Gulf's holdings could have been converted 
into 2,700,877 shares of Union Oil common upon surrender of 
debentures plus cash, according to Union. Under the new offering, only 
$60 million in debentures are convertible into 923,076 common shares. 

#DUE IN 1986#

The new offering Tuesday consisted of $60 million 
worth of 4-7/8 debentures, due June 1, 1986, at 100%, and $60 
million of 4-1/2% convertible subordinated debentures due June 1, 1991, 
at 100%. The convertible debentures are convertible into common 
shares at $65 a share by June 1, 1966; $70 by 1971; $75 by 1976; 
$80 by 1981; $85 by 1986, and $90 thereafter. 

_NEW YORK(~AP)_- American Stock Exchange prices enjoyed a fairly 
solid rise but here also trading dwindled. Volume was 1.23 million 
shares, down from Monday's 1.58 million. Gains of 2-3/4 were posted 
for Teleprompter and Republic Foil. Fairchild Camera and Kawecki 
Chemical gained 2-1/2 each. 

_QUESTION_- I bought 50 shares of Diversified Growth Stock Fund 
on Oct& 23, 1959, and 50 more shares of the same mutual fund on 
Feb& 8, 1960. Something has gone wrong some place. I am getting 
dividends on only 50 shares. In other words, I am getting only half 
the dividends I should. _ANSWER_- Write to the fund's custodian 
bank- the First National Bank of Jersey City, N&J&. 
That bank handles most of the paper work for Diversified Growth Stock 
Fund, Fundamental Investors, Diversified Investment Fund and 
Television-Electronics Fund.   The bank installed a magnetic 
tape electronic data processing system to handle things. But it seems 
that this "electronic brain" wasn't "programmed" correctly.

This resulted in a great number of errors. And letters began 
to come in to this column from irate shareholders.   I visited 
the bank in March and wrote a story about the situation. At that time, 
the people at the bank said they felt that they had the situation 
in hand. They indicated that no new errors were being made and that all 
old errors would be corrected 
"within 60 days".   That 60-day 
period is over and letters are still coming in from shareholders of 
these four funds, complaining about mistakes in their accounts. 
Maybe it's taking longer to get things squared away than the bankers 
expected. Any shareholder of any of these funds who finds a mistake 
in his account certainly should get in touch with the bank.   {Doyle 
cannot undertake to reply to inquiries. He selects queries or 
general interest to answer}. 

_WASHINGTON (~AP)_- Alfred Hayes, president of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, said Tuesday "there is no present need 
for far-reaching reforms" which would basically alter the international 
financial system.   Hayes said that if a way can be found 
to deal effectively with short-term capital movements between nations, 
"there is no reason, in my judgment why the international financial 
system cannot work satisfactorily for at least the foreseeable 
future". 

_WASHINGTON (~UPI)_- New York Central Railroad president Alfred 
E& Perlman said Tuesday his line would face the threat of 
bankruptcy if the Chesapeake + Ohio and Baltimore + Ohio Railroads 
merge.   Perlman said bankruptcy would not be an immediate effect 
of the merger, but could possibly be an ultimate effect.   The 
railroad president made the statement in an interview as the Interstate 
Commerce Commission opened Round 2 of its hearing into the ~C+~O's 
request to control and then merge with the ~B+~O.

"All these kind of things weaken us", Perlman said. 

#BAD 
CONDITION#

Board Chairman Howard Simpson of the Baltimore + Ohio 
Railroad Co&, testified the ~B+~O was in its worst financial 
condition since the depression years and badly needed the economic 
lift it would get from consolidation with the Chesapeake + Ohio Railroad.

"The financial situation of the Baltimore + Ohio, 
has become precarious- much worse than at any time since the depression 
of the 1930s", he told the hearing.   ~C+~O president 
Walter J& Tuohy was summoned back for cross-examination by New 
York Central attorneys before examiner John Bradford who is hearing 
the complex case.   The New York Central also has asked the 
~ICC to permit it to gain control of the ~B+~O.   Central 
was rebuffed by the other two railroads in previous attempts to 
make it a three-way merger. The proposed ~C+~O-~B+~O railroad 
would make it the hemisphere's second largest. 

_WASHINGTON (~AP)_- The government's short-term borrowing costs 
rose with Tuesday weekly offering of Treasury bills. On $1.1 billion 
of 90-day bills, the average yield was 2.325%. The rate a week 
ago was 2.295%. 

_WASHINGTON, MARCH 11 (~UPI)._- "Consumer uncertain about economic 
conditions".   This was the chief reason for a so-so sales 
outlook given by two-thirds of 56 builders polled by the National 
Housing Center.   Other reasons mentioned by one-third or more 
of the builders were "resistance to high interest rates, cost advantage 
of buying over renting has narrowed, shelter market nearing saturation 
and prospects unable to qualify". 

#INCREASE EXPECTED#

The 
poll was taken at the Center's annual builders' intentions conference. 
It disclosed that the builders:   Expect their own production 
volume, and presumably sales, to jump 30 percent in 1961.

Look for home building nationally to advance less than 10 percent 
this year from 1960's 1,257,7000 non-farm housing starts. The industry 
has said 1960 was a poor year. Starts were down 20 percent from 
1959.   Why the discrepancy between the builders' forecasts for 
themselves and for the industry? 

#LEADERS OF INDUSTRY#

The 
reason, says the Housing Center, is that the builders invited to the 
intentions conference "are generally among the more successful businessmen, 
and usually do somewhat better than their fellow builders". 

_ELBURN, ILL&_- Farm machinery dealer Bob Houtz tilts back 
in a battered chair and tells of a sharp pickup in sales: "We've 
sold four corn pickers since Labor Day and have good prospects for 
10 more. We sold only four pickers all last year".   Gus Ehlers, 
competitor of Mr& Houtz in this farm community, says his business 
since August 1 is running 50% above a year earlier. "Before 
then, my sales during much of the year had lagged behind 1960 by 20%", 
he says.   Though the sales gains these two dealers are 
experiencing are above average for their business, farm equipment sales 
are climbing in most rural areas. Paradoxically, the sales rise is 
due in large 
measure to Government efforts to slash farm output. Although 
the Administration's program cut crop acreage to the lowest point 
since 1934, farmers, with the help of extra fertilizer and good weather, 
are getting such high yields per acre that many are being forced 
to buy new harvesting machines. Fields of corn and some other crops 
in many cases are so dense that older equipment cannot handle them 
efficiently. 
The higher price supports provided by the new legislation, 
together with rising prices for farm products, are pushing up farm income, 
making it possible for farmers to afford the new machinery.

Seven of the eight companies that turn out full lines of farm machinery 
say sales by their dealers since the start of August have shown 
gains averaging nearly 10% above last year. "In August our dealers 
sold 13% more farm machinery than a year earlier and in September 
retail sales were 14% higher than last year", says Mark V& 
Keeler, farm equipment vice president of International Harvester 
Co&. For the year to date, sales of the company's farm equipment 
dealers still lag about 5% behind 1960. 

#TWO OF THREE REPORT GAINS# 

Among individual dealers questioned in nearly a score of states, 
two out of three report their sales since August 1 show sizable gains 
from a year earlier, with the increases ranging from 5% to 50%. 
Not all sections are showing an upswing, however; the drought-seared 
North Central states are the most notable exceptions to the uptrend.

The significance of the pickup in farm machinery sales extends 
beyond the farm equipment industry. The demand for farm machinery 
is regarded as a yardstick of rural buying generally. Farmers spend 
more of their income on tractors and implements than on any other group 
of products. More than 20 million people live on farms and they own 
a fourth of the nation's trucks, buy more gasoline than any other 
industry and provide a major market for home appliances, chemicals and 
other products.   Farmers are so eager for new machinery that 
they're haggling less over prices than they did a year ago, dealers 
report.   "Farmers aren't as price conscious as last year so 
we can get more money on a sale", says Jack Martin, who sells J& 
I& Case tractors and implements in Sioux City, Iowa. "This 
morning, we allowed a farmer $600 on the old picker he traded in on 
a new $2,700 model. Last year, we probably would have given him $700 
for a comparable machine". Mr& Martin sold 21 tractors in August; 
in August of 1960, he sold seven. 

#DEALERS' STOCKS DOWN# 

With dealer stocks of new equipment averaging about 25% below a year 
ago, the affects of the rural recovery are being felt almost immediately 
by the country's farm equipment manufacturers. For example, farm 
equipment shipments of International Harvester in August climbed 
about 5% above a year earlier, Mr& Keeler reports.   Tractor 
production at Massey-Ferguson, Ltd&, of Toronto in July and 
August rose to 2,418 units from 869 in the like period a year earlier, 
says John Staiger, vice president.   With the lower dealer 
inventories and the stepped-up demand some manufacturers believe there 
could be shortages of some implements. Merritt D& Hill, Ford Motor 
Co& vice president, says his company is starting to get calls 
daily from dealers demanding immediate delivery or wanting earlier shipping 
dates on orders for corn pickers.   Except for a few months 
in late 1960 and early 1961, retail farm equipment sales have trailed 
year-earlier levels since the latter part of 1959. The rise in sales 
last winter was checked when the Government's new feed grain program 
was adopted; the program resulted in a cutback of around 20% 
in 
planted acreage and, as a result, reduced the immediate need for machines.

Nearly all of the farm equipment manufacturers and dealers 
say the upturn in sales has resulted chiefly from the recent improvement 
in crop prospects. Total farm output for this year is officially 
forecast at 129% of the 1947-49 average, three points higher than 
the July 1 estimate and exactly equal to the final figure for 1960.

The Government also is aiding farmers' income prospects. Agriculture 
Department economists estimate the Government this year will 
hand farmers $1.4 billion in special subsidies and incentive payments, 
well above the record $1.1 billion of 1958 and about double the $639 
million of 1960. Price support loans may total another $1 billion 
this year. With cash receipts from marketings expected to be slightly 
above 1960, farmers' gross income is estimated at $39.5 billion, $1.5 
billion above 1960's record high. Net income may reach $12.7 billion, 
up $1 billion from 1960 and the highest since 1953. The Government 
reported last week that the index of prices received by farmers 
rose in the month ended at mid-September for the third consecutive month, 
reaching 242% of the 1910-14 average compared with 237% at mid-July.

{KENNEDY OPPOSES any widespread relief from a High Court 
depletion ruling.}   The Supreme Court decision in mid-1960 
was in the case of a company making sewer pipe from clay which it 
mined. The company, in figuring its taxable earnings, deducted a percentage 
of the revenue it received for its finished products. Such "depletion 
allowances", in the form of percentages of sales are authorized 
by tax law for specified raw materials producers using up their 
assets. The High Court held that the company must apply its percentage 
allowance to the value of the raw materials removed from the ground, 
not to the revenue from finished products.   A measure passed 
by Congress just before adjourning softened the ruling's impact, on 
prior-year returns still under review, for clay-mining companies that 
make brick and tile products. The measure allows such companies in 
those years to apply their mineral depletion allowances to 50% of the 
value of the finished products rather than the lower value of raw clay 
alone.   <President Kennedy, in signing the relief measure 
into law, stressed he regarded it as an exception. "My approval of 
this bill should not be viewed as establishing a precedent for the enactment 
of similar legislation for other mineral industries", the President 
said>. #@#

{CHARITABLE DEDUCTIONS come in for 
closer scrutiny by the I&R&S&.}   The Service announced 
that taxpayers making such claims may be called on to furnish a statement 
from the recipient organization showing the date, purpose, amount 
and other particulars of the contribution. Requests for substantiation, 
the Service indicated, can be especially expected in cases where 
it suspects the donor received some material benefit in return, such 
as tickets to a show.   In such instance, revenuers stressed, 
the deduction must be reduced by the value of the benefit received. #@#

A RULE on the Federal deductibility of state taxes 
is contested.}   A realty corporation in Louisiana owed no tax 
under Federal law, on its gain from the sale of property disposed 
of in line with a plan of liquidation. Louisiana, however, collected 
an income tax on the profits from the sale. The corporation, in filing 
its final Federal income return, claimed the state tax payment as a 
deductible expense, as permitted under U&S& tax law.   The 
Revenue Service disallowed the claim, invoking a law provision that 
generally bars deductions 
for expenses incurred in connection with what 
it said was tax-exempt income. The Tax Court rejected this view. 
It said the tax-freedom of the gain in this case stemmed not from the 
exempt status of the income but from a special rule on corporate liquidations.

<The Tax Court decision and a similar earlier finding 
by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals challenges a year-old 
I&R&S& ruling on the subject. The Service has not said what 
its next step will be>. #@#

{PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS} 
are assured a tax benefit under the law creating the agency. It provides 
that the $1,800 termination payment each cadet is to get, after 
serving a two-year hitch without pay, will be spread over both years, 
not taxed in its entirety at a possibly higher rate in the year received.#@#

THE OWNER} of a public relations firm owed no 
income tax on payments he received from a client company and "kicked 
back" to the company's advertising manager, the Tax Court ruled. 
The taxpayer testified that in order to retain the account he had 
to pad his invoices and pay the excess to the manager. The Court upheld 
the taxpayer's contention that these "kickbacks" were not his 
income though they passed through his hands. The Court limited its 
decision to the tax issue involved, commenting: "It is not our province 
to pass judgment on the morality of the transaction". #@#

A PORTABLE KEROSENE RANGE} designed for use aboard boats 
is sold with a special railing to keep it from moving with the motion 
of the vessel. The Revenue Service said the addition of the attachment 
does not keep the range from coming under the Federal manufacturers' 
excise tax on household-type appliances. #@#

{HIRING 
THE WIFE for one's company may win her tax-aided retirement income}.

A spouse employed by a corporation her husband controls, 
for example, may be entitled to distributions under the company's 
pension plan as well as to her own Social Security coverage. She would 
be taxed on the pensions when received, of course, but the company's 
contributions would be tax-free.   A frequent pitfall in this 
sort of arrangement, experts warn, is a tendency to pay the wife more 
than her job is worth and to set aside an excessive amount for her 
as retirement income. In that event, they note, the Revenue Service 
might declare the pension plan is discriminatory and deny it tax privileges 
under the law.   <Possible upshots: The company could 
be denied a deduction for its pension payments, or those payments for 
the wife and other employes could be ruled taxable to them in the year 
made>. #@#

{STATE BRIEFS:} Voters in four counties 
containing and bordering Denver authorized the imposition of an additional 
2% sales tax within that area. Colorado has a 2% sales 
tax. Denver itself collects a 1% sales tax which is to be absorbed 
in the higher area tax **h. The Washington state supreme court ruled 
that the state's occupation tax applied to sales, made at cost to an 
oil company, by a wholly-owned subsidiary set up to purchase certain 
supplies without divulging the identity of the parent. The state's 
occupation tax is computed on gross sales. The court held that the tax 
applied to non-profit sales because the corporations realized economic 
benefits by doing business as two separate entities. 

_WASHINGTON_- Consumer spending edged down in April after rising 
for two consecutive months, the Government reported.   The Commerce 
Department said seasonally adjusted sales of retail stores dropped 
to slightly under $18 billion in April, down 1% from the March 
level of more than $18.2 billion. April sales also were 5% below 
those of April last year, when volume reached a record for any month, 
$18.9 billion (see chart on Page One).   The seasonal adjustment 
takes into account such factors as Easter was on April 2 this 
year, two weeks earlier than in 1960, and pre-Easter buying was pushed 
into March.   Commerce Department officials were inclined to 
explain the April sales decline as a reaction from a surge of consumer 
buying in March. Adjusted sales that month were up a relatively 
steep 2.5% from those of the month before, which in turn were slightly 
higher than the January low of $17.8 billion.

Greer Garson world-famous star of stage, screen and television, 
will be honored for the high standard in tasteful sophisticated fashion 
with which she has created a high standard in her profession.

As a Neiman-Marcus award winner the titian-haired Miss Garson 
is a personification of the individual look so important to fashion 
this season. She will receive the 1961 "Oscar" at the 24th annual 
Neiman-Marcus Exposition, Tuesday and Wednesday in the Grand 
Ballroom of the Sheraton-Dallas Hotel. ##

{THE ONLY WOMAN} 
recipient, Miss Garson will receive the award with Ferdinando 
Sarmi, creator of chic, beautiful women's fashions; Harry Rolnick, 
president of the Byer-Rolnick Hat Corporation and designer 
of men's hats; Sydney Wragge, creator of sophisticated casuals 
for women and Roger Vivier, designer of Christian Dior shoes Paris, 
France, whose squared toes and lowered heels have revolutionized 
the shoe industry.   The silver and ebony plaques will be presented 
at noon luncheons by Stanley Marcus, president of Neiman-Marcus, 
Beneficiary of the proceeds from the two showings will be the Dallas 
Society for Crippled Children Cerebral Palsy Treatment Center.

The attractive Greer Garson, who loves beautiful clothes 
and selects them as carefully as she does her professional roles, prefers 
timeless classical designs. Occasionally she deserts the simple 
and elegant for a fun piece simple because "It's unlike me". ## 
{IN PRIVATE LIFE}, Miss Garson is Mrs& E& E& 
Fogelson and on the go most of the time commuting from Dallas, 
where 
they maintain an apartment, to their California home in Los Angeles' 
suburban Bel-Air to their ranch in Pecos, New Mexico. Therefore, 
her wardrobe is largely mobile, to be packed at a moment's notice 
and to shake out without a wrinkle.   Her creations in fashion 
are from many designers because she doesn't want a complete wardrobe 
from any one designer any more than she wants "all of her pictures 
by one painter". ##

{A FAVORITE} is Norman Norell, 
however. She likes his classic chemise. Her favorite cocktail dress 
is a Norell, a black and white organdy and silk jersey.   Irene 
suits rate high because they are designed for her long-bodied silhouette. 
She also likes the femininity 
and charm of designs by Ceil Chapman 
and Helen Rose.   Balenciaga is her favorite European 
designer.   "I bought my first dress from him when I was still 
a struggling young actress", she reminisces. "I like his clothes 
for their drama and simplicity and appreciate the great impact he has 
on fashion". ##

{BLACK AND WHITE} is her favorite color 
combination along with lively glowing pinks, reds, blues and greens.

Of Scotch-Irish-Scandinavian descent, Greer Garson was 
born in County Down, Ireland. Her mother was a Greer and her father's 
family came from the Orkney Isles.   Reared in England, 
she studied to be a teacher, earned several scholarships and was graduated 
with honors from the University of London. She took postgraduate 
work at the University of Grenoble in France and then returned 
to London to work on market research with an advertising firm. ## 
{HER ACTING} began with the Birmingham Repertory Company 
and she soon became the toast of the West End. Among stage performances 
was a starring role in "Golden Arrow" directed by Noel 
Coward. It was during "Old Music" at the St& James Theater 
that Hollywood's Louis B& Mayer spotted her.   After 
signing a motion-picture contract, she came to America and had "Goodbye, 
Mr& Chips" as her first assignment after a year's wait. 
Other triumphs include "Random Harvest", "Madame Curie", 
"Pride and Prejudice", "The Forsythe Saga" and "Mrs& 
Miniver" (which won her the Academy Award in 1943). ##

{HONORS} 
that have come to Greer Garson are countless. Just this 
April she was nominated for the seventh time for an Academy Award 
for her portrayal of Eleanor Roosevelt in "Sunrise at Campobello". 
She gave a fine portrayal of Auntie Mame on Broadway in 1958 
and has appeared in live television from "Captain Brassbound's 
Conversion" to "Camille". She is in Madame Tussard's Waxworks 
in London, a princess of the Kiowa tribe and an honorary colonel 
in many states.   She is adept at skeet shooting, trout fishing, 
Afro-Cuban and Oriental dancing and Southwestern archaeology. 
She now serves on the board of directors of the Dallas Symphony 
Orchestra and the Dallas Theater Center and on the board of trustees 
of the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts. She is state chairman for 
the New Mexico Tuberculosis and Cancer Associations. Both Miss 
Garson and her oilman-rancher husband are active supporters of Boys 
Clubs of America and patrons of the vivid art and opera colony that 
flourishes in New Mexico.

Back in college, today's handsome Gander was the only male 
member of a Texas Tech class on food. The pretty coeds must have ogled 
him all day long- but he dutifully kept his eye on the gravy.

Last October he gave a public speech in Washington, D&C& 
entitled "Are Women Here to Stay"? So you can see that Gerald 
G& Ramsey, director of ~SMU's food services, is not the 
ordinary type of craven, women-trodden chef. He is apt to rear back 
and claim his rights. ##

{RAMSEY}, as ~SMU's food 
wrangler, buys enough groceries to serve 32,000 meals a week. Tell 
that to the little wife when she moans at the woman's burden!

He also dishes up 3,000 snacks. And he operates three cafeterias 
in the Student Center, along with McElvaney Dining Hall and the 
athlete's tables.   Ramsey, 6-3, 195 and ruggedly slim, says, 
"I can't remember when I didn't pester my mother to teach me 
to cook". ##

{HE WAS IN CHARGE} of the Hockaday School 
meals from 1946 to 1950, before he moved to ~SMU. And you'll 
notice that in both places, there are acres of charming young ladies 
who with little effort spice up any chow line.   What does he feed 
his ~SMU football mastodons at the training table?   "Mostly 
meat and potatoes- they have to have that go-go-go without 
getting too fat", says Ramsey. So he hides the mayonnaise. And to 
keep athletes' stomachs from getting jumpy under physical duress, 
he bans all highly flavored condiments. ##

{WHAT DO} the 
pretty ~SMU girls like on their plates?   "Pretty much 
hamburger, hotdogs, steak and, at night, maybe pizza", says the handsome 
food expert. "Unfortunately, there is still little demand for 
broccoli and cauliflower".   Ramsey has stoked up Harry Truman, 
Henry Cabot Lodge, the King of Morocco, Clement Atlee and 
other shiny characters. Once four Tibetan monks, in their saffron robes, 
filed through the cafeteria line.   "They aren't supposed 
to look at women, you know", Ramsey recalled. "What with all 
those pretty girls around, they had a hard time". 

#CHICKEN CADILLAC# 

Use one 6-ounce chicken breast for each guest. Salt and pepper 
each breast. Dip in melted butter and roll in flour. Place side by 
side in a 2-inch deep baking pan. Bake slowly about one hour at 250-275 
F& until lightly brown.   Add enough warmed cream, seasoned 
to taste with onion juice, to about half cover the chicken breasts. 
Bake slowly at least one-half hour longer.   While this is baking, 
saute mushrooms, fresh or canned, in butter. Sprinkle over top 
of chicken breasts. Serve each breast on a thin slice of slow-baked ham 
and sprinkle with Thompson seedless grapes.   (Leave off the 
ham and you call it Chicken Pontiac, says Ramsey.)

Contemporary furniture that is neither Danish nor straight-line 
modern but has sculptured pattern, many design facets, warmth, dignity 
and an effect of utter comfort and livability.   That is the 
goal of two new collections being introduced in Dallas this month.

Though there has been some avant garde indication that contemporary 
furniture might go back to the boxy look of the '20's and '40's, 
two manufacturers chose to take the approach of the sophisticated, 
but warm look in contemporary. These two, Heritage and Drexel, 
chose too not to produce the exactly matching design for every piece, 
but a collection of correlated designs, each of which could stand alone.

The Heritage collection, to be shown by Sanger-Harris and 
Anderson's Studio, has perhaps more different types of woods and 
decorations than any one manufacturer ever assembled together at one 
time. Called Perennian, to indicate its lasting, good today and tomorrow 
quality, the collection truly avoids the monotony of identical pieces.

Walnut, wormy chestnut, pecan, three varieties of burl, 
hand-woven Philippine cane, ceramic tiles, marble are used to emphasize 
the feeling of texture and of permanence, the furniture to fit into 
rooms with tiled floors, brick or paneled walls, windows that bring 
in the outdoors. It is a collection with a custom-design look, offering 
simplicity with warmth, variety and vitality.   The Drexel collection, 
called Composite, to be shown by Titche's offers a realistic 
approach to decorating, a mature modern that is a variation of many 
designs.   Rounded posts give a soft, sculptured look, paneled 
doors have decorative burl panels or cane insets plus softening arches, 
table tops are inlaid in Macassar ebony or acacia. A high-legged 
buffet provides easy-to-reach serving, a cocktail table has small snack 
tables tucked under each end, recessed arched panels decorate a 60-inch 
long chest.   An interesting approach to the bedroom is presented, 
with a young, basic, functional group of chests, dressers and 
corner units and a canted headboard. The other bedroom has heavier styling, 
door-fronted dressers with acacia panels, a poster bed or a bed 
with arched acacia panels and matching mirror.   Colorful, bright 
Eastman Chromspun fabrics, with the magenta, pink and white tones 
predominating as well as golden shades are used with Composite. The 
fabrics have Scotchgard finish to resist soil and wrinkles. 
Design elements closely rooted to traditional forms but wearing a definite 
contemporary label keynote Drexel's fall 1961 group, Composite. 
The spider-leg pedestal table has a base finished in an ebony, to 
set off the lustrous brown of the walnut top. See-through design of 
the chairs combines both the nostalgic ladder back and an Oriental shoji 
flavor. To bring warmth to the dining area, golden orange tones 
are used in the fabrics.   Dignity and comfort, in a contemporary 
manner, reflecting the best aspects of today's design, with substance 
and maturity, keynote the Perennian collection from Heritage. Center 
panel, hand-screened wood, actually is a back of one of the tall 
bookcases. Mellow bronzy-green-gold fabrics and the gleam of copper 
and hand-crafted ceramic accessories reiterate the mood as does the Alexander 
Smith carpet in all wool loop pile.

The Vagabonds are "on the road" again. Members are on their 
way to Saledo, not by stage coach, but in air-conditioned cars.

This coming weekend they have reserved the entire Stagecoach Inn 
and adjoining country club, Saledo, for festivities. Invitations 
have been extended to some Austin dignitaries including Gov& and 
Mrs& Price Daniel.   Stagecoach Days is the theme for the 
weekend on the Old Chisholm Trail. ##

{THE GET-TOGETHER} 
Friday night will be a banquet at the country club patio and pool, 
and an orchestra will play for dancing.   Guests will wear costumes 
typical of the Chisholm Trail Days. Ginghams and calico will 
be popular dress for the women. The men will be in western attire, 
including Stetsons and colored vests. ##

{DECORATING} 
the ballroom 
will be the yellow rose of Texas, in tall bushes; bluebonnets 
and stagecoach silhouettes. There will be a large drawing of a sunbonnet 
girl with eyes that flash at the guests.   Mr& and Mrs& 
Phil G& Abell are chairmen for the Saledo trip. Committee members 
aiding them in planning the entertainment are ~Messrs and ~Mmes 
Roy McKee, George McElyee, Jack Fanning, W& H& Roquemore 
and Joe Darrow. ##

{THE TRAVEL CLUB} is comprised of 
75 fun-loving couples who have as their motto "Go Somewhere, Anywhere, 
Everywhere". Their activities will be climaxed in the spring 
of 1962 when they go to Europe.   In the past, the men and women 
have chartered planes to Las Vegas and Jamaica, buses to Mineral 
Wells and Kerrville and private railway coaches to Shreveport and 
Galveston.   Four parties are given a year. Two of these are 
in or near Dallas and the others away from the vicinity.   Serving 
on the club's board are ~Mmes R& P& Anderson, president; 
A& F& Schmalzried, secretary; W& H& Roquemore, 
treasurer, and the following chairmen: ~Mmes McKee, publicity; 
Lawrence B& Jones, yearbook, and Sam Laughlin, scrapbook.

A cooky with caramel filling and chocolate frosting won $25,000 
for a Minneapolis housewife in the 13th annual Pillsbury Bake-Off 
Tuesday.   Mrs& Alice H& Reese, wife of an engineer and 
mother of a 23-year-old son, was awarded the top prize at a luncheon 
in the Beverly Hilton Hotel. Mrs& Reese entered 10 past bake-offs 
before she got into the finals.   Second grand prize 
of $5,000 went to Mrs& Clara L& Oliver for her Hawaiian coffee 
ring, a rich yeast bread with coconut filling and vanilla glaze. 

#MOTHER 
OF FIVE#

Mrs& Oliver is mother of five children and wife 
of a machinist. She lives in Wellsville, Mo&.   Mrs& Reese 
baked her cookies for only the third time in the Bake-off finals. 
And the third time was the charm.   She dreamed up the cooky recipe, 
tried it, liked it and entered it in the contest. The second baking 
was for photographing when told she was a finalist. The third time 
was on the floor of the Beverly Hilton ballroom and for the critical 
eyes and tongues of judges.

Mr& and Mrs& Joseph R& Bolker will give a dinner 
on Friday at their home in Beverly Hills to honor Mrs& Norman Chandler, 
chairman of the Music Center Building Fund Committee, and 
Mr& Chandler.   Mr& Bolker heads a group within the building 
and development industry to raise funds in support of this cultural 
center for the performing arts.   A feature of the party will 
be a presentation by Welton Becket, center architect, of color slides 
and renderings of the three-building complex. 

#FOLIAGE WILL GLOW 
AT FORMAL FALL PARTY#

Fall foliage and flowers will decorate Los 
Angeles Country Club for the annual formal party Saturday evening. 
More than 200 are expected at the autumn event which is matched in 
the spring.   Among those with reservations are Messrs& and 
Mmes& William A& Thompson, Van Cott Niven, A& B& Cox, 
David Bricker, Samuel Perry and Robert D& Stetson. 
Others are Drs& and Mmes& Alfred Robbins, and J& Lafe Ludwig 
and Gen& and Mrs& Leroy Watson. 

#GUESTS FROM ACROSS U&S& 
HONOR DR& SWIM#

When Dr& W& A& Swim celebrated his 
75th birthday at the Wilshire Country Club, guests came by chartered 
plane from all over the country.   A flight originating in 
Florida picked up guests on the East Coast and Midwest and a plane 
left from Seattle taking on passengers at West Coast points.

Cocktails and a buffet supper were served to more than 100 persons 
who had known Dr& Swim when he practiced in Los Angeles. He started 
practice in 1917, and served on the State Board of Medical Examiners.

Giving up the violin opened a whole new career for Ilona Schmidl-Seeberg, 
a tiny Hungarian who Fritz Kreisler had predicted would 
have a promising career on the concert stage.   A heart attack 
when she was barely 20 put an end to the 10-hour daily practicing. 
She put the violin away and took out some linen, needles and yarn to 
while away the long, idle days in Budapest.   Now her modern tapestries 
have been exhibited on two continents and, at 26, she feels she 
is on the threshold of a whole new life in Los Angeles.   Her 
days as an art student at the University of Budapest came to a sudden 
end during the Hungarian uprisings in 1957 and she and her husband 
Stephen fled to Vienna.   There they continued their studies 
at the university, she in art, he in architecture. And there she had 
her first showing of tapestry work.

There's a lot of talk about the problem of education in America 
today. What most people don't seem to realize, if they aren't 
tied up with the thing as I am, is that 90% of the problem is transportation.

I never dreamed of the logistical difficulties involved 
until, at long last, both of my boys got squeezed into high school. 
It seems like only last year that we watched them set out up the 
hill hand in hand on a rainy day in their yellow raincoats to finger-paint 
at the grammar school.   Getting to and from school was no 
problem. They either walked or were driven. #@#

Now they go to 
a high school that is two miles away. One might think the problem would 
be similar. They could walk, ride on a bus or be driven. 
It's much more complex than that. Generally, they go to school with 
a girl named Gloriana, who lives down the block, and has a car.

This is a way of getting to school, but, I understand, it entails 
a certain loss of social status. A young man doesn't like to be driven 
up in front of a school in a car driven by a girl who isn't even 
in a higher class than he is, and is also a girl.   "Why don't 
you walk to school then"? I suggested. "My father walked, 
through two miles of snow, in Illinois".   "Did you"? 
I was asked.   "No", I said, "I didn't happen to grow 
up in Illinois".   I explained, however, that I had my share 
of hardship in making my daily pilgrimage to the feet of wisdom. #@# 

I had to ride a streetcar two miles. Sometimes the streetcar 
was late. Sometimes there weren't even any seats. I had to stand 
up, with the ladies. Sometimes I got on the wrong car and didn't get 
to school at all, but wound up at the ocean, or some other dismal place, 
and had to spend the day there.   I've tried to compromise 
by letting them take the little car now and then. When they do that 
my wife has to drive me to work in the big car. She has to have at 
least one car herself. I feel a certain loss of status when I am driven 
up in front of work in a car driven by my wife, who is only a woman.

Even that isn't satisfactory. If they have to take any car, 
they'd rather take the big one. They say that when they take a 
car, Gloriana doesn't take her car, but rides with them. But when 
Gloriana rides with them they also have to take the two girls who usually 
ride with her, so the little car isn't big enough. #@#

The 
logic of that is impeccable, of course, except that I feel like a 
fool being driven up to work in a little car, by my wife, when everybody 
knows I have a big car and am capable of driving myself.   The 
solution, naturally, is the bus. However, it's a half-mile walk 
down a steep hill from our house to the bus, and it's too hard on my 
legs.   My wife could drive us down the hill and we could all 
walk 
from there. But that's hardly realistic.   Nobody walks any 
more but crackpots and Harry Truman, and he's already got an education.

Advance publicity on the Los Angeles Blue Book does not mention 
names dropped as did the notices for the New York Social Register 
which made news last week.   Published annually by William 
Hord Richardson, the 1962 edition, subtitled Society Register of 
Southern California, is scheduled to arrive with Monday morning's 
postman.   Publisher Richardson has updated the Blue Book "but 
it still remains the compact reference book used by so many for 
those ever-changing telephone numbers, addresses, other residences, 
club 
affiliations and marriages". 

#STARS FOR MARRIAGE#

Stars throughout 
the volume denote dates of marriages during the past year. Last 
two to be added before the book went to press were the marriages of Meredith 
Jane Cooper, daughter of the Grant B& Coopers, to Robert 
Knox Worrell, and of Mary Alice Ghormley to Willard Pen Tudor.

Others are Carla Ruth Craig to Dan McFarland Chandler 
Jr&; 
Joanne Curry, daughter of the Ellsworth Currys, to James 
Hartley Gregg, and Valerie Smith to James McAlister Duque.

Also noted are the marriages of Elizabeth Browning, daughter 
of the George L& Brownings, to Austin C& Smith Jr&; 
Cynthia 
Flower, daughter of the Ludlow Flowers Jr&, to Todd Huntington, 
son of the David Huntingtons. 

#PASADENA LISTINGS#

Listed 
as newly wed in the Pasadena section of the new book are Mr& and Mrs& 
Samuel Moody Haskins /3,. She is the former Judy Chapman, 
daughter of John S& Chapman of this city. The young couple live 
in Pasadena. Another marriage of note is that of Jane McAlester 
and William Louis Pfau.   Changes in address are noted.

For instance, the Edwin Pauleys Jr&, formerly of Chantilly 
Rd&, are now at home on North Arden Dr& in Beverly Hills.

Mr& and Mrs& Robert Moulton now live on Wilshire and the 
Franklin Moultons on S& Windsor Blvd&. The Richard Beesemyers, 
formerly of Connecticut, have returned to Southern California 
and are now residing on South Arden Blvd&. But the Raoul Esnards 
have exchanged their residence in Southern California for Mexico 
City. 

#MORE NEW ADDRESSES#

Judge and Mrs& Julian Hazard 
are now at Laguna Beach, while the Frank Wangemans have moved from 
Beverly Hills to New York, where he is general manager of the Waldorf-Astoria 
Hotel. And Lawrence Chase, son of the Ransom Chases, 
is listed at his new address in Oxford, Eng&.   Others 
listed at new addresses are the Richard T& Olerichs, the Joseph 
Aderholds Jr&, the Henri de la Chapelles, the John Berteros and 
Dr& and Mrs& Egerton Crispin, the John Armisteads, the Allen 
Chases, the Howard Lockies, the Thomas Lockies, and Anthony 
Longinotti.   Newcomers of social note from other parts of the 
country are the Ray Carbones, formerly of Panama; the Geddes MacGregors, 
formerly of Scotland, and Mr& and Mrs& Werner H& 
Althaus, formerly of Switzerland.

HERE'S an idea for a child's room that is easy to execute 
and is completely charming, using puppets for lamp bases. Most children 
love the animated puppet faces and their flexible bodies, and 
they prefer to see them as though the puppets were in action, rather than 
put away in boxes. Displayed as lamps, the puppets delight the children 
and are decorative accent.   To create such a lamp, order 
a wired pedestal from any lamp shop. Measure the puppet to determine 
the height of the light socket, allowing three to four inches above the 
puppet's head. Make sure that the metal tube through which the wire 
passes is in the shape of an inverted "~L", the foot of the 
"~L" about three inches long, so that the puppet can hang directly 
under the light. 

#PULLING STRINGS#

Using the strings that manipulate 
the puppet, suspend him from the light fixture by tying the 
strings to the lamp base. In this way, you can arrange his legs and arms 
in any desired position, with feet, or one foot, barely resting on 
the pedestal. If the puppets are of uniform size, you can change them 
in accord with your child's whims.   Although a straight drum 
shade would be adequate and sufficiently neutral that the puppets could 
be changed without disharmony, it is far more fun to create shades 
in the gay spirit of a child's playtime. Those illustrated are reminiscent 
of a circus top or a merry-go-round. The scalloped edge is particularly 
appealing.

TODAY'S trend toward furniture designs from America's 
past is teaching home-owners and decorators a renewed respect for the 
shrewd cabinetmakers of our Colonial era.   A generation ago 
there were plenty of people who appreciated antiques and fine reproductions. 
In the background lurked the feeling, however, that these pieces, 
beautiful as they were, lacked the utilitarian touch. So junior's 
bedroom was usually tricked out with heavy, nondescript pieces that 
supposedly could take the "hard knocks", while the fine secretary 
was relegated to the parlor where it was for show only.   This 
isn't true of the many homemakers of the 1960's, according to decorator 
consultant, Leland Alden.   Housewives are finding literally 
hundreds of ways of getting the maximum use out of traditional designs, 
says Mr& Alden and they are doing it largely because Colonial 
craftsmen had "an innate sense of the practical". 

#SOLID INVESTMENT# 

There are a number of reasons why the Eighteenth Century 
designer had to develop "down to earth" designs- or go out of 
business.

{HOTEL ESCAPE'S} Bonanza room has a real bonanza in 
its new attraction, the versatile "Kings /4, Plus Two".

This is the strongest act to hit the area in a long while- a well 
integrated, fast moving outfit specializing in skits, vocals, comedy 
and instrumentals all of it distinctly displaying the pro touch.

{Show spotlights the Kings- George Worth, Bill Kay, Frank 
Ciciulla and Gene Wilson, flanked by Dave Grossman and Ron Stevens}.

The plus two remain at a fixed position with drums 
and guitar but the quartet covers the stage with a batch of instruments 
ranging from tuba to tambourine, and the beat is solid.   {In 
the comedy division, the Kings simply augmenting talent and imagination 
with a few props. Net result is some crazy-wonderful nonsense, part 
of which can be classed as pure slapstick}.   Kings /4, 
have rated as a popular act in Vegas and Western nightclubs. If they 
can't chalk up BIG business here then let's stop this noise 
about how hip we are, and stick to our community singing, @ 

#ELSEWHERE# 
{ANDY BARTHA} and his trio have booked into Oceania Lounge 
**h the Cumbancheros, Latin combo, open Tuesday at the Four O'Clock 
Club **h "Flip" Phillips for a return engagement at Fireside 
Steak Ranch Wednesday; same date, Johnny LaSalle trio to 
the Jolly Roger **h Dick Carroll and his accordion (which we now 
refer to as "Freida") held over at Bahia Cabana where "Sir" 
Judson Smith brings in his calypso capers Oct& 13.   {Johnny 
Leighton picked up some new numbers out in Texas which he's 
springing on the ringsiders in the Rum House at Galt Ocean Mile 
Hotel}.   "Skip" Hovarter back in town from a summer in 
the Reno-Lake Tahoe area where he ran into Rusty Warren, Kay Martin, 
the Marskmen and Tune Toppers- all pulling good biz, he says. 
@ 

#WE LIKE FIKE#

{AL FIKE}, an ex-schoolteacher from 
Colorado, is currently pursuing the three ~R's- rhythm, reminiscence 
and repartee- in a return class session at the Trade Winds 
Hotel.   Al has added some sidemen to the act which makes for 
a smoother operation but it's substantially the same format heard 
last spring.   {Newcomers are Ernie Kemm on piano, Wes Robbins, 
bass and trumpet, and Jack Kelly on drums. It's a solid show 
but, except for some interim keyboarding by Ernie, it's Al's 
all the way}.   Maestro's biggest stock in trade is his personality, 
and ability to establish a warm rapport with his audience. He 
skips around from jazz, to blues to boogie- accompanying himself on 
piano and frequently pulling the customers in on the act.   This 
is a bouncy show which may get a little too frantic at times, but is 
nevertheless worth your appraisal. 

#NEW OWNERS#

{CAFE SOCIETY} 
opens formally this afternoon under its new ownership. George 
Kissak is the bossman; Terry Barnes has been named manager.

Spot retains the same decor although crystal chandeliers have been 
installed above the terrace dining area, and the kitchen has undergone 
a remodeling job.   {Latter domain, under the guidance of 
Chef Tom Yokel, will specialize in steaks, chops, chicken and prime 
beef as well as Tom's favorite dish, stuffed shrimp}.   Bandstand 
features Hal DeCicco, pianist, for both dinner hour and the 
late trade. The Tic-Tac-Toe trio is the club's new show group 
which also plays for dancing. @ 

#HERE AND THERE#

{HERBERT 
HEILMAN} in 
town for a day. Hubie's restaurant activities up in 
Lorain, Ohio, may preclude his return here until after Oct& 20, 
date set for reopening the Heilman Restaurant on Sunman Restaurant 
on Sunrise **h   {Louise Franklin cornering the gift shop 
market in Lauderdale. Vivacious redhead debuts another shop, her sixth, 
in the Governor's Club Hotel this week} **h   Sunday 
New Orleans brunches continue at the Trade Winds but the daily French 
buffets have been called off **h   Mackey Airline's new 
Sunshine Inn at Bimini set to open some time this month, according 
to Hank Johnson **h   Student Prince Lounge on Atlantic 
Blvd& plotting a month-long "festival" throughout October, with 
special features **h   {Don Drinkhouse of Pal's Restaurant 
planning a reunion with the Miami Playboy Club's pianist, Julian 
Gould. Two were in the same band 18 years ago; Don, who played 
drums, hasn't seen his chum since} **h   Steak House has 
such a run on beer to wash down that Mexican food "Tex" Burgess 
had to call the draft man twice in one day. (Which is understandable- 
if you've ever sampled the exotic, peppery fare.) @ 

#FACES 
IN PLACES#

{PUALANI} and Randy Avon, Dave Searles, George 
(Papa) Gill, Al Bandish, Jim Morgart, Bob Neil at the Mouse 
trap **h Billy and Jean Moffett at the Rickshaw **h Bea Morley, 
Jimmy Fazio, Jim O'Hare, Ralph Michaels, Bill and Evelyn 
Perry at the Escape. @ 

#MURPHY HONORS#

{HEAR THAT} 
Patricia Murphy flies up to St& John's Newfoundland, next Sunday 
to attend the government's special ceremonies at Memorial University 
honoring distinguished sons and daughters of the island province.

Miss Murphy was born in Placentia, Newfoundland. Her 
invitation from Premier Joseph Smallwood is reported to be the only 
one extended to a woman. 

_FORT LAUDERDALE_- The first in a series of five productions will 
be held in War Memorial Auditorium Thursday, Oct& 26.

"Le Theatre D'Art Du Ballet", of Monte Carlo, will present 
a program of four ballets including "Francesca Da Rimini". 
Performers include a company of 46 dancers and a symphony orchestra.

{The series of ballets is sponsored by the Milenoff Ballet 
Foundation, Inc&, a non-profit foundation with headquarters in Coral 
Gables}.   Also set for appearances at the auditorium this 
season are: "American Ballet Theatre" on Jan& 27, "Ximenez-Vargas 
Ballet Espagnol" on Feb& 2; Jorge Bolet, pianist, 
on Feb& 23; and "Dancers of Bali" on March 8. 

_HOLLYWOOD_- A Southeast Library Workshop will be held here 
Oct& 9, conducted by Mrs& Gretchen Schenk of Summerdale, Ala&, 
author, lecturer and library leader.   The workshop will begin 
at 10 a&m& and end at 3 p&m& in the auditorium of the Library 
and Fine Arts Building. There is no registration fee but there 
will be a charge of $2.50 for the luncheon to be held in the library 
and fine arts building.   Anyone interested in attending the meeting 
may have reservations with Mrs& John Whelan at the Hollywood 
Public Library.   At the workshop, Mrs& Schenk will discuss 
"the board and the staff, librarian-board relationships, personnel 
policies, how good is our librarian and staff, how good am I as a 
library board member and how good is our library".   Other workshops 
will be in Tallahassee Oct& 5; Jacksonville, Oct& 6; 
Orlando, Oct& 10; Plant City Oct& 11. 

_FORT LAUDERDALE_- A series of high school assemblies to acquaint 
junior and senior students with the Junior Achievement program begins 
at St& Thomas Aquinas Monday.   Subsequent assemblies 
will be held at Stranahan High School Tuesday, at Pompano Beach 
High Wednesday, and at Fort Lauderdale high Thursday.   The 
business education program operates with the cooperation of local high 
schools and business firms.

Is there anything a frustrated individual can do about Communism's 
growing threat on our doorstep and around the world? 
More than 300 teenagers last Sunday proved there is and as many more 
are expected to prove it again for Jim Kern and his wife Lynn from 
4 to 8 p&m& Sunday at First Presbyterian Church.   At that 
time the second half of the Christian Youth Crusade against Communism 
will be staged. {A young real estate salesman, Kern first 
got seriously interested in the problems posed by Communism when in the 
Navy Air Force. He was particularly struck by a course on Communist 
brainwashing}.   Kern began reading a lot about the history 
and philosophy of Communism, but never felt there was anything 
he, 
as an individual, could do about it.   When he attended the Christian 
Anti-Communist Crusade school here about six months ago, 
Jim became convinced that an individual can do something constructive 
in the ideological battle and set out to do it.   The best approach, 
he figured, was to try to influence young people like the high 
schoolers he and his wife serve as advisors at First Presbyterian Church.

{And he wanted to be careful that the kids not only learn 
about Communist but also about what he feels is the only antidote- 
a Biblically strong Christianity}.   So the Christian 
Youth Crusade against Communisn developed and more than 300 top teenagers 
and 65 adult advisers from Presbyterian churches of the area sat 
enthralled at the four-hour program.   This Sunday those attending 
the second session will hear a lecture by Kern on the world situation; 
a review of the philosophy of Communist leaders by Ted Slack, 
another real estate agent who became interested as a philosophy 
major at the University of Miami; and talks on how their Christian 
faith can guide them in learning about and fighting Communism during 
high school and college days, by Ted Place, director of Greater Miami 
Youth for Christ, and Jon Braun, director of Campus Crusade 
for Christ.   {The second half of the film "Communism on 
the Map" and the movie "Operation Abolition" also will be 
shown}.

Response to the program has been so encouraging, Kern 
said, that a city-wide youth school at Dade County Auditorium may be 
set up soon.   And to encourage other churches to try their own 
programs, Kern said this Sunday's sessions- including the free 
dinner- will be open to anyone who makes reservations.

The need for and the way to achieve a Christian home will be 
stressed in special services marking National Christian Family Week 
in Miami area churches next week.   Of particular meaning to 
the Charles MacWhorter family, 3181 ~SW 24th Ter&, will be the 
Family Dedication Service planned for 10:50 a&m& Sunday {at 
First Christian Church}.   It will be the second time 
the assistant manager of a Coral Gables restaurant and his wife have 
taken part in the twice-a-year ceremonies for families with new babies.

The first one, two years ago, changed the routine of their 
home life.   {"When you stand up in public and take vows to 
strive to set an example before your children and to teach them the 
fundamentals of the Christian faith, you strive a little harder to uphold 
those vows", explains the slender vice president of the young couples 
Sunday school class}.   Until that first dedication service, 
he and Lois felt their children were too young to take part in 
any religious life at home. They have five daughters- Coral Lee, 
5, Glenda Rae, 4, Pamela, 3, Karen, 2, and Shari, five months.

But after that service, they decided to try to let the girls say 
grace at the table, have bedtime prayers, and Bible stories. To their 
surprise, the children all were eager and quite able to take part. 
Even the two-year-old feels miffed if the family has a prayer-time without 
her. #@#

{DADE'S CHIEF} probation officer, Jack 
Blanton, will lead a discussion on "The Changes in the American 
Family" at 7:30 p&m& Sunday at {Christ Lutheran Church}. 
#@#

{MR& AND MRS&} George Treadwell will 
be honored at a Family Week supper and program at 6 p&m& Sunday 
at {Trinity Methodist Church}. He is the sexton of the church.

A family worship service will follow the program at 7:45 
p&m&. #@#

{THE OUTSTANDING} family of {Central 
Nazarene Church} will be picked by ballot from among eight families 
during the 10:45 a&m& Sunday service marking National Family 
Week. #@#

{EVERY} family of {Riviera Presbyterian 
Church} has been asked to read the Bible and pray together daily 
during National Christian Family Week and to undertake one project 
in which all members of the family participate.   {To start 
the week of special programs at the church, the Rev& John D& 
Henderson will preach on "A Successful Marriage" at 9:40 and 
11 a&m& Sunday. New officers of the church will be ordained and 
installed at the 7:30 p& m& service}.   A father and son 
dinner sponsored by the Men's Club will be held at 6:15 p&m& 
Monday and the annual church picnic at 4 p&m& next Saturday.

The week will end with the Rev& Mr& Henderson preaching on 
"The Marriage Altar" at 7:30 p&m& Sunday, May 14.

The resignation of the Rev& Warren I& Densmore, headmaster 
of St& Stephen's Episcopal Day School in Coconut Grove, 
becomes effective July 15.

Enrique Jorda, conductor and musical director of the San Francisco 
Symphony, will fulfill two more guest conducting engagements 
in Europe before returning home to open the symphony's Golden Anniversary 
season, it was announced.   The guest assignments are 
scheduled 
for November 14 and 18, with the Orchestra Sinfonica Siciliana 
in Palermo and the Orchestra of Radio Cologne. The season in San 
Francisco will open with a special Gala Concert on November 22.

During his five-month visit abroad, Jorda recently conducted 
the Orchestre Philharmonique de Bordeau in France, and the Santa 
Cecilia Orchestra in Rome.   In announcing Jorda's return, 
the orchestra also announced that the sale of single tickets for the 
50th anniversary season will start at the Sherman Clay box office on 
Wednesday.   Guest performers and conductors during the coming 
season will include many renowned artists who began their careers playing 
with the orchestra, including violinists Yehudi Menuhin, Isaac 
Stern, Ruggiero Ricci and David Abel; pianists Leon Fleisher, 
Ruth Slenczynka and Stephen Bishop and conductor Earl Bernard 
Murray.

The Leningrad Kirov Ballet, which opened a series of performances 
Friday night at the Opera House, is, I think, the finest "classical" 
ballet company I have ever seen, and the production of 
the Petipa-Tschaikowsky "Sleeping Beauty" with which it began 
the series is incomparably the finest I have ever had the pleasure of 
witnessing.   This work is no favorite of mine. I am prepared 
to demonstrate at an ytime that it represents the spirit of Imperial 
Russia in its most vulgar, infantile, and reactionary aspect; that 
its persistent use by ballet companies of the Soviet regime indicates 
that that old spirit is just as stultifying alive today as it ever was; 
that its presentation in this country is part of a capitalist plot 
to boobify the American people; that its choreography is undistinguished 
and its score a shapeless assemblage of self-plagiarisms. All 
of this is true and all of it is totally meaningless in the face of 
the Kirov's utterly captivating presentation. 

#PRECISE#

The reasons 
for this enchantment are numerous, but most of them end in "ova", 
"eva", or "aya". In other words, no merely male creature 
can resist that corps de ballet. It seems to have been chosen exclusively 
from the winners of beauty contests- Miss Omsk, Miss Pinsk, 
Miss Stalingr **h oops, skip it.   These qualities alone, 
however, would not account for their success, and it took me a while to 
discover the crowning virtue that completes this company's collective 
personality. It is a kind of friendliness and frankness of address 
toward the audience which we have been led to believe was peculiar to 
the American ballet. Oh-the-pain-of-it, that convention of Russian 
ballet whereby the girls convey the idea that they are all the daughters 
of impoverished Grand Dukes driven to thestage out of filial piety, 
is totally absent from the Kirov. This is all the more remarkable 
because the Kirov is to ballet what Senator Goldwater is to American 
politics. But, obviously, at least some things have changed for 
the better in Russia so far as the ballet is concerned.   Irina 
Kolpakova, the Princess Aurora of Friday's performance, would 
be a change for the better anywhere, at any time, no matter who had had 
the role before. She is the most beautiful thing you ever laid eyes 
on, and her dancing has a feminine suavity, lightness, sparkle, and refinement 
which are simply incomparable. 

#HIT#

Alla Sizova, who 
seems to have made a special hit in the East, was delightful as the lady 
Bluebird and her partner, Yuri Soloviev, was wonderfully 
virile, 
acrobatic, and poetic all at the same time, in a tradition not unlike 
that of Nijinsky. Vladilen Semenov, a fine "danseur noble"; 
Konstantin Shatilov, a great character dancer; and Inna Zubkovskaya, 
an excellent Lilac Fairy, were other outstanding members of the 
cast, but every member of the cast was magnificent.   The production, 
designed by Simon Virsaladze, was completely traditional but 
traditional in the right way. It was done with great taste, was big and 
spacious, sumptuous as the dreams of any peasant in its courtly costumes, 
but sumptuous in a muted, pastel-like style, with rich, quiet harmonies 
of color between the costumes themselves and between the costumes 
and the scenery.   Evegeni Dubovskoi conducted an exceptionally 
large orchestra, one containing excellent soloists- the violin 
solos by the concertmaster, Guy Lumia, were especially fine- but one 
in which the core of traveling players and the body of men added locally 
had not had time to achieve much unity.

Mail orders are now being received for the series of concerts 
to be given this season under the auspices of the San Francisco Chamber 
Music Society.   The season will open at the new Hall of 
Flowers in Golden Gate Park on November 20 at 8:30 p& m& with 
a concert by the Mills Chamber Players.   Sustaining members 
may sign up at $25 for the ten-concert season; annual members 
may 
attend for $16. Participating members may attend five of the concerts 
for $9 (not all ten concerts as was erroneously announced earlier in The 
Chronicle).   Mail orders for the season and orders for single 
tickets at $2, may be addressed to the society, 1044 Chestnut street, 
San Francisco 9.

San Francisco firemen busied themselves last week with their 
annual voluntary task of fixing up toys for distribution to needy children.

Fire Fighters Local 798, which is sponsoring the toy program 
for the 12th straight year, issued a call for San Franciscans 
to turn in discarded toys, which will be repaired by off-duty firemen.

Toys will not be collected at firehouses this year. They will 
be accepted at all branches of the Bay View Federal Savings and 
Loan Association, at a collection center in the center of the Stonestown 
mall, and at the Junior Museum, 16th street and Roosevelt way.

From the collection centers, toys will be taken to a warehouse 
at 198 Second street, where they will be repaired and made ready 
for distribution.   Any needy family living in San Francisco can 
obtain toys by writing to Christmas Toys, 676 Howard street, San 
Francisco 5, and listing the parent's name and address and the age 
and sex of each child in the family between the ages of 1 and 12. Requests 
must be mailed in by December 5. 
Famed cellist Pablo Casals took his instrument to the East Room of 
the White House yesterday and charmed the staff with a two-hour rehearsal. 
He was getting the feel of the room for a concert tomorrow night 
for Puerto Rico Governor Luis Munoz Marin. President Kennedy's 
invitation to the Spanish-born master said, "We feel your 
performance as one of the world's greatest artists would lend distinction 
to the entertainment of our guests".

FOR A GOOD MANY SEASONS I've been looking at the naughty 
stuff on television, so the other night I thought I ought to see 
how immorality is doing on the other side of the fence in movies. After 
all, this year's movies are next year's television shows.

So I went to see "La Dolce Vita".   <It has been billed 
as a towering monument to immorality. All the sins of ancient Rome 
are said to be collected into this three-hour film. If that's 
all the Romans did, it's a surprise to me that Rome fell>. 
After television, "La Dolce Vita" seems as harmless as a Gray 
Line tour of North Beach at night. I cannot imagine a single scene 
that isn't done in a far naughtier manner on ~TV every week.

I believe ~TV watchers will be bored.   <"La Dolce 
Vita" has none of the senseless brutality or sadism of the average 
~TV Western. Week in, week out, there is more sex to be seen 
in "The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet". There is more decadence 
on "77 Sunset Strip". There are more obvious nymphomaniacs 
on any private-eye series>. #@#

{IN ANOTHER RESPECT}, 
television viewers will feel right at home because most of the actors 
are unknowns. With the exception of Lex Barker and Anita Ekberg, 
the credits are as unfamiliar as you'll find on the Robert Herridge 
Theater.   Most of the emphasis has been placed on a "wild 
party" at a seaside villa. Producer Fellini should have looked at 
some of the old silent films where they really had {PARTIES}! 
The Dolce Vita get-together boasted a strip tease (carried as 
far as a black slip); a lady drunk on her hands and knees who carries 
the hero around on her back while he throws pillow feathers in her 
face; a frigid beauty, and three silly fairies.   Put them all 
together and they spell out the only four-letter word I can think of: 
dull.   <Apparently Fellini caught the crowd when its parties 
had begun to pall. What a swinging group they must have been when 
they first started entertaining!> #@#

{AS A MORAL SHOCKER} 
it is a dud. But this doesn't detract from its merit as an 
interesting, if not great, film. The Chronicle's Paine Knickerbocker 
summed it up neatly:   "This is a long picture and a controversial 
one, but basically it is a moral, enthralling and heartbreaking 
description of humans who have become unlinked from life as perhaps 
Rome has from her traditional political, cultural and religious 
glories".   <And when they sell it to television in a couple 
of years, it can be shown without editing>. #@#

TONIGHT 
Atlantic Monthly editor Edward Weeks moderates a round table of four 
Russian writers in a discussion of Soviet literature. Among the 
subjects discussed will be Russian restrictions on poets and writers 
in the ~USSR (Channel 9 at 9:30) **h Person to Person ventilates 
the home lives of Johnny Mercer and Joan Collins- both in 
Southern California (Channel 5 at 10:30) **h ~KQED Summer 
Music Festival features a live concert by the Capello de Musica (Channel 
9 at 8:30).   ~NBC plans a new series of three long 
programs exploring America's scientific plans titled "Threshold", 
to start in the fall **h. "Science in Action", San Francisco's 
venerable television program, will be seen in Hong Kong this 
fall in four languages: Mandarin, Cantonese, Chiuchow and English, 
according to a tip from Dr& Robert C& Miller. <And you 
think> 
YOU <have language problems>.

THE WEEK WENT along briskly enough. I bought a new little 
foreign bomb. It is a British bomb. Very austere yet racy.

It is very chic to drive foreign cars. With a foreign car you must 
wear a cap- it has a leather band in the back. You must also wear 
a car coat.   The wardrobe for a foreign bomb is a little expensive. 
But we couldn't really get along without it. #@#

"WHERE 
DO YOU put the lighter fluid, ha, ha"? asked the gas station 
man. The present crop of small cars is enriching American humor.

Gas station people are very debonair about small cars. 
When I drove a car with tail fins, I had plenty status at the wind-and-water 
oases. My car gulped 20 gallons without even wiping its mouth.

This excellent foreign bomb takes only six.   When 
I had my big job with the double headlights and yards of chrome, the 
gas people were happy to see me.   "<Tires> OK? <Check 
the oil and water, sir?>"   They polished the windshield. 
They had a loving touch. #@#

THE MAN STUCK the nozzle 
in the gas tank. "What kind of car is it"? he asked gloomily.

"It is a British Austin, the smallest they make". 
"Get much mileage"?   "About 35".   The gas station 
man sighed unhappily.   "What I always say is what if 
somebody clobbers you in a little car like that? Crunch, that's all 
she wrote".   "I will die rich".   "That will be 
$1.80", said the gas station man. "The windshield looks pretty 
clean". #@#

AH, THE FAIR-WEATHER friends of yesteryear! 
When I wheeled about, finned fore and aft, I was the darling of the 
doormen. Dollar bills skidded off my hands and they tipped their caps 
politely.   With a small bomb, I tuck it between Cadillacs. 
(The last doorman that saw me do that should calm himself. High 
blood pressure can get the best of any of us.)

AT LAST the White House is going to get some much-copied 
furniture by that master American craftsman, Duncan Phyfe, whose 
designs were snubbed in his lifetime when the U& S& Presidents 
of the 19th Century sent abroad for their furnishings.   The American 
Institute of Decorators has acquired a rare complete set of 
sofas 
and chairs which are to be placed in the Executive Mansion's library. 
The suite has been in the same family since the early 1800's. 
The gift is being presented by "heirs and descendants of the Rutherford 
family of New Jersey, whose famous estate, 
"Tranquility", 
was located near the Duncan Phyfe workshop at Andover, N& J&.

Authenticated pieces of Duncan Phyfe furniture are uncommon, 
although millions of American homes today display pieces patterned 
after the style trends he set 150 years ago. This acquisition is 
a 
matched, perfect set- consisting of two sofas six feet long, plus six 
sidechairs and two armchairs.   THE ~AID HAS undertaken 
the redecoration of the White House library as a project in 
connection with the work being done by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy's 
Fine Arts Advisory Committee to secure antiques for the presidential 
home. It is the ~AID's intention to create in the 
library "a miniature museum of Americana" before completed refurbishing 
is unveiled early this fall.   The room will also feature 
another rarity many antiquarians would consider more important than the 
Duncan Phyfe furniture. The ~AID has found a mantlepiece attributed 
to Samuel McIntyre of Salem, Mass&, an architect and woodcarver 
who competed for the designing of the Capitol here in 1792.

The mantel was found in a recently demolished Salem house and 
is being fitted over the White House library fireplace. It will be 
painted to match the paneling in the room.   The ~AID committee's 
chairman in charge of the redecoration, Mrs& Henry Francis 
Lenygon, was in town yesterday to consult with White House staff 
members on the project. Mrs& Lenygon's committee associates, 
announced formally yesterday by the ~AID in New York, include Mrs& 
Allen Lehman McCluskey and Stephen J& Jussel, both wellknown 
Manhattan decorators. Regional representatives appointed to serve 
from each section of the country include Frank E& Barnes of 
Boston.

PRESIDENT KENNEDY couldn't stay away from his desk for 
the 75-minute young people's concert played on the White House lawn 
yesterday by the 85-piece Transylvania Symphony Orchestra from Brevard, 
N& C&. But he left the doors to his office open so he 
could hear the music.   At 4 p& m& the President left the White 
House to welcome the young musicians, students from the ages of 
12 to 18 who spend six weeks at the Brevard Music Center summer camp, 
and to greet the 325 crippled, cardiac and blind children from the 
District area who were special guests at the concert.   It was 
the first in the series of "Concerts for Young People by Young 
People" to be sponsored by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy at the 
White House. She was not present yesterday, however, to enjoy the 
music or watch the faces of the delighted audience.   She is vacationing 
at the Kennedy summer home in Hyannis Port, Mass&, and in 
his welcoming remarks, the President said he was representing her.

As he approached the open bandstand, erected facing the South 
entrance to the Executive Mansion, the band struck up the "Star Spangled 
Banner" and followed it with "Hail to the Chief".

"I think they played Hail to the Chief better than the Marine 
Corps Band, and we are grateful to them", President Kennedy remarked 
after mounting the bandstand and shaking hands with conductor 
James Christian Pfohl.   AFTER PAYING tribute to the conductor 
and his white-clad youthful students, President Kennedy said, 
"As an American I have the greatest possible pride in the work that 
is being done in dozens of schools stretching across the United States- 
schools where devoted teachers are studying with interested 
young men and women and opening up the whole wide horizon of serious music".

He added "**h I think that sometimes in this country 
we are not aware as we should be of the extraordinary work that 
is being done in this field".   Displaying his knowledge of 
music, the New England-born President remarked that "probably the 
best chamber music in the world is played in Vermont, by young Americans- 
and here in this school where they have produced extraordinary 
musicians and teachers, and their work is being duplicated all across 
the United States.   "This is a great national cultural asset, 
and therefore it is a great source of satisfaction to me, representing 
as I do today my wife, to welcome all of you here today at the 
White House".   As he left the bandstand to return to his office, 
the slender, sun-tanned Chief Executive paused along the way to 
shake hands with the members of the audience in wheel chairs forming 
the first row under the field tent set up for the guests.   He 
expressed surprise to learn that pretty, blonde Patricia Holbrook, 16, 
of Mount Rainier, 
had attended the Joseph P& Kennedy School 
for the Handicapped in Boston. "The nuns there do a wonderful work", 
the President commented. Patricia now attends the C& Melvin 
Sharpe Health School in the District.   Each of the children 
invited to the concert wore a name tag marked with a red, white and 
blue ribbon. They enjoyed lemonade and cookies served before and during 
the concert by teenage sons and daughters of members of the White 
House staff.   MANY of the music-loving members of the President's 
staff gathered around the tent listening and watching the 
rapt attention given by the young seated audience. And it turned out 
to be more of a family affair than expected. Henry Hall Wilson, a 
student at the music camp 25 years ago and now on the President's 
staff as liaison representative with the House of Representatives, turned 
guest conductor for a Sousa march, the "Stars and Stripes Forever".

Transylvania Symphony Conductor Pfohl said yesterday that Mrs& 
Kennedy's Social Secretary, Letitia Baldrige, told about 
plans for White House youth concerts before the National Symphony 
Orchestra League in Philadelphia last spring.   He said he contacted 
a friend, Henry Hall Wilson, on the President's staff and 
asked whether his orchestra could play, in the series. A flow of correspondence 
between Pfohl and Miss Baldrige resulted in an invitation 
to the 85-student North Carolina group to play the first concert.

ONE OF THE MOST interested "students" on the tour which 
the Brevard group took at the National Gallery yesterday following 
their concert at the White House, was Letitia Baldrige, social 
secretary to First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy.   "I was an art 
major in college", Miss Baldrige explained. "I've been here 
so many times I couldn't count them". She turned out to be a fan, 
too, of Margaret Bouton, the Gallery's associate curator of education.

Miss Bouton headed up one of the four groups that went 
on simultaneous tours after the Gallery had closed at 5 
p& m&. 
The Brevard group of 85 arrived at the Gallery at 6 p& m&, remaining 
for about 45 minutes.   The Brevard visitors had very little 
to say at the beginning of the tour but warmed up later. They decided 
that they thought Rembrandt's self-portrait made him look "sad"**h 
they noticed Roman buildings in the background of Raphael's 
"Alba Madonna" and "texture" in a Monet painting of Rheims 
Cathedral. Everybody had heard of Van Gogh, the French impressionist.

Gallery Director John Walker greeted the group, standing 
on one of the benches in the downstairs lobby to speak to them. 
He pointed out to the young musicians that the National Gallery "is 
the only museum in the country to have a full-time music director 
**h Richard Bales **h I'm sure you've heard af him **h and his 
record, 'The Confederacy'".   Along with the gallery aide 
who explained the various paintings and sculptures to each group, went 
one of the Gallery's blue-uniformed guards.   In 45 minutes, 
the Gallery leaders had given the students a quick rundown on art 
from the Renaissance to the late 19th Century.   A few of them 
said they "preferred contemporary art".   Among the other 
artists, whose paintings were discussed were Boucher, Courbet, Fra 
Angelico.   The thing that impressed one of the visitors the most 
was the Gallery's rotunda fountain **h "because it's on the 
second floor".

That imposing, somewhat austere, and seemingly remote collonaded 
building with the sphynxes perched on its threshold at 1733 16th st& 
nw& took on bustling life yesterday.   More than 250 Scottish 
Rite Masons and guests gathered in their House of the Temple 
to pay tribute to their most prominent leader, Albert Pike, who headed 
the Scottish Rite from 1859 to 1891.   They came together in 
the huge, high-ceilinged Council Chamber to hear the late leader eulogized. 
C& Wheeler Barnes of Denver, head of the Scottish Rite 
in Colorado, praised Pike as a historian, author, poet, journalist, 
lawyer, jurist, soldier and musician, who devoted most of his mature 
years to the strengthening of the Masonic Order.   The ceremony 
ended with the laying of a wreath at the crypt of Pike in the House 
of the Temple. A reception and tea followed.   About 1500 
delegates are expected to register today for the biennial session of the 
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite for the Southern Jurisdiction 
of the United States.   The opening session of the 5-day session 
will begin at 10 a& m& today. There will be a pilgrimage to 
Mount Vernon at 2:30 p& m&. A wreath will be placed at the 
tomb of George Washington, one of this Nation's first Masons- 
a past master of Washington-Alexandria Lodge 22 in Alexandria.

THE MARRIAGE of John and Mary Black had clearly reached 
the breaking point after eight years.   John had a job in a small 
firm where the work was dull and monotonous. He would come home in 
the evening tired and discouraged- in no frame of mind to play with 
their three children, or spend much time chatting with his wife.

Hurt by his lack of interest and attention, Mary complained often 
that he didn't help around the house, and that he didn't really 
care about the family. She accused him of ignoring her. He in turn told 
her she demanded too much. They were both discouraged, disgusted 
and miserable.   Mary decided she had had enough. Without any definite 
plan in mind, she went to a judge to see what could be done. The 
judge listened quietly as the young woman poured out her frustrations- 
then discussing with her the possibility of seeking aid from 
Family 
Service before going to a lawyer.   Family Service, sharing 
in ~UGF, has five agencies in the Washington area. They offer 
to the people of this community case work service and counseling on 
a wide variety of family problems.   Because neither of them really 
wanted their marriage to break up, Mr& and Mrs& Black agreed 
to a series of interviews at Family Service of Northern Virginia, 
the agency nearest them. For nearly a year, they have been receiving 
counseling, separately and together, in an effort to understand and 
overcome the antagonisms which had given rise to the possibility of divorce. 
The interviews have led each of them to a new appreciation of 
the problems confronting the other. They are now working together toward 
solving their difficulties.   JOHN received a promotion 
in his firm. He gives credit for the promotion to his new outlook on 
life. Mary is cheery and gay when her husband comes home in the evenings, 
and the children's bed-time is frequently preceeded by a session 
of happy, family rough-housing.   To outsiders, the Blacks seem 
to be an ordinary, happy family, and they are- but with a difference. 
They know the value of being just that- an ordinary, happy family.

Family Service has helped hundreds of families in this 
area. Perhaps to some their work does not seem particularly vital. But 
to the families it serves, their help cannot be measured. Family Service 
could not open its doors to a single family without the financial 
support of the United Givers Fund.

Anticipated heavy traffic along the Skyline Drive failed to 
materialize yesterday, park rangers said, and those who made the trip 
got a leisurely view of the fall colors through skies swept clear of haze. 

#FOR CRUCIAL ENCOUNTER#

One of the initial questions put to President 
Kennedy at his first news conference last January was about his 
attitude toward a meeting with Premier Khrushchev. Mr& Kennedy 
replied:   @ "I'm hopeful that from @ more traditional 
exchanges we can perhaps find greater common ground".   The 
President knew that a confrontation with Mr& Khrushchev sooner or 
later probably was inevitable and even desirable. But he was convinced 
that the realities of power- military, economic and ideological- 
were the decisive factors in the struggle with the Communists and that 
these could not be talked away at a heads of government meeting. He 
wanted to buy time to strengthen the U& S& and its allies and 
to define and begin to implement his foreign policy.   Last Friday 
the White House announced:   President Kennedy will 
meet 
with Soviet Premier Nikita S& Khrushchev in Vienna June 3 and 
4.   The announcement came after a period of sharp deterioration 
in East-West relations. The heightened tension, in fact, had been 
a major factor in the President's change of view about the urgency 
of a meeting with the Soviet leader. He was not going to Vienna 
to negotiate- the simultaneous announcements in Washington and Moscow 
last week stressed that no formal negotiations were planned. But 
Mr& Kennedy had become convinced that a personal confrontation with 
Mr& Khrushchev might be the only way to prevent catastrophe.

That objective set the high stakes and drama of the Vienna meeting. 
Despite efforts by Washington last week to play down the significance 
of the meeting, it clearly was going to be one of the crucial encounters 
of the cold war. @ 

#ROAD TO VIENNA#

The U& S& and 
Soviet heads of Government have met three times since Sir Winston 
Churchill in 1953 introduced a new word into international diplomacy 
with his call for a fresh approach to the problem of peace "at the 
summit of the nations".   The first time was in 1955 when a 
full-dress Big Four summit meeting produced the "spirit of Geneva". 
The spirit served chiefly to lull the West while Moscow made inroads 
into the Middle East.   In 1959 President Eisenhower 
and Premier Khrushchev held an informal session in the U& S&. 
That meeting produced the "spirit of Camp David"- a spirit, it 
later turned out, that masked a basic misunderstanding about progress 
toward a Berlin settlement.   On the third occasion- another 
Big Four summit session at Paris a year ago- there was no problem 
of an illusory "spirit". Premier Khrushchev wrecked the conference 
at its initial session with a bitter denunciation of the U& S& 
for the ~U-2 incident. The episode tended to confirm the U& 
S& belief that propaganda, the hope of one-sided concessions, and 
the chance to split the Allies, rather than genuine negotiation, were 
the Soviet leader's real aims in summitry. 

#PRE-INAUGURAL POSITION# 

Thus when Premier Khrushchev intimated even before inauguration 
that he hoped for an early meeting with the new President, Mr& 
Kennedy was confronted with a delicate problem. Shortly before his 
nomination he had set forth his basic view about the problem of negotiations 
with the Soviet leader in these words:   "As long 
as Mr& Khrushchev is convinced that the balance of world power is 
shifting his way, no amount of either smiles or toughness, neither Camp 
David talks nor kitchen debates, can compel him to enter fruitful 
negotiations".

The President had set for himself the task, which 
he believed vital, of awakening the U& S& and its allies to 
the hard and complex effort necessary to shift that balance. He did 
not want the effort weakened by any illusion that summit magic might make 
it unnecessary. He wanted time, too, to review the United States' 
global commitments and to test both the policies he had inherited 
and new ones he was formulating. Above all, he did not want to appear 
to be running hat in hand to Premier Khrushchev's doorstep. 

#ATTITUDE 
FLEXIBLE#

At the same time the President took pains not to 
rule out an eventual meeting with the Soviet leader. Ideally, he knew, 
it should be preceded by concrete progress at lower levels. But Mr& 
Kennedy saw value even in an informal meeting, provided that undue 
hopes were not raised in connection with it. It would give him an 
opportunity to take the measure of his chief adversary in the cold war, 
to try to probe Mr& Khrushchev's intentions and to make clear 
his own views. Moreover, an eventual meeting was desirable if for no 
other reason than to satisfy world opinion that the U& S& was not 
inflexible and was sparing no effort to ease international tensions.

Both elements- the caution about a meeting, the willingness 
eventually to hold one- were reflected in a letter from the President 
which Ambassador Llewellyn E& Thompson brought back to Russia 
late in February. The letter, dated Feb& 22, was delivered to 
Premier Khrushchev in Novosibirsk, Siberia, on March 9. It dealt 
mainly with a broad range of East-West issues. But it also briefly 
suggested the possibility of a meeting with Mr& Khrushchev before 
the end of the year if the international climate were favorable and 
schedules permitted.   Developments over the next two months, however, 
caused the President to reconsider the question of the timing. 
There were intense discussions in the inner councils of the White House 
about the advisability of an early meeting, not because the international 
climate was improving, but precisely because it was deteriorating 
alarmingly. 

#DEADLOCK ON TESTS#

The President was especially 
concerned about the deadlock in the nuclear test ban negotiations at 
Geneva. The deadlock has been caused by the Russians' new demand 
for a three-man (East, West and neutral) directorate, and thus a veto, 
over the control machinery. In the U& S&, strong pressures 
have been building up for a resumption of tests on grounds that the Russians 
may be secretly testing.   Mr& Kennedy was less troubled 
by that possibility than by the belief that a Geneva breakdown, 
or even continued stalemate, would mean an unchecked spread of nuclear 
weapons to other countries as well as a fatal blow to any hope for disarmament. 
There was reason to believe that Premier Khrushchev was 
also concerned about a possible spread of nuclear weapons, particularly 
to Communist China. The question arose as to whether a frank discussion 
of that danger with the Soviet leader had not become urgent. Moreover, 
Moscow appeared determined to apply the tripartite veto principle 
to the executive organs of all international bodies, including 
the U& N& Secretariat and the International Control Commission 
for Laos. Mr& Kennedy was convinced that insistence on the demand 
would make international agreements, or even negotiations, impossible.

Developments in Cuba and Laos also suggested the advisability 
of an early summit meeting. Initially the White House reaction 
was that the bitter exchanges with Moscow over Cuba and the conflict 
in Laos had dampened prospects for a meeting. At the same time, 
there was increased reason for a quick meeting lest the Soviet leader, 
as a result of those episodes, come to a dangerously erroneous conclusion 
about the West's ability and determination to resist Communist 
pressure.   In Cuba, the U& S& had blundered badly and 
created the impression of impotency against Communist penetration even 
on its own doorstep. In Laos, the picture was almost equally bad. 
U& S& willingness to accept a neutral Laos may have led Premier 
Khrushchev to believe that other areas could be "neutralized" 
on Soviet terms. Beyond that, Allied disagreement about military intervention 
in Laos- despite warnings that they might do so- allowed 
Moscow to carry out with impunity a series of military and diplomatic 
moves that greatly strengthened the pro-Communist forces. As a result, 
the West is in a poor bargaining position at the current Geneva 
negotiations on Laos, and South Vietnam and other nations in Southeast 
Asia are under increased pressure.   In the light of those 
events, there appeared to be a real danger that Premier Khrushchev 
might overreach himself. Ambassador Thompson reported from Moscow 
that the Soviet leader's mood was cocky and aggressive. He has indicated 
that he plans new moves on Berlin before the year is out. The 
President and his advisers felt that the time might have come to warn 
Premier Khrushchev against a grave miscalculation in areas such 
as Berlin, Iran or Latin America from which there would be no turning 
back.   It was in the midst of such White House deliberations 
that Premier Khrushchev on May 4 made new inquiries through the 
U& S& Embassy in Moscow about a meeting with the President in 
the near future. Mr& Kennedy told Moscow he would give his answer 
by May 20 after consultation with the Allies. The response from 
London, Paris and Bonn was favorable. Firm arrangements for the meeting 
in Vienna were worked out in a final exchange between Moscow and 
Washington last week. Apparently at the insistence of the U& S&, 
the simultaneous announcements issued in Washington and Moscow 
last Friday emphasized the "informal" nature of the meeting. The 
Washington announcement said:   @ "The President and Chairman 
Khrushchev understand that this meeting is not for the purpose 
of negotiating or reaching agreement on the major international problems 
that involve the interest of many other countries. The meeting 
will, however, afford a timely and convenient opportunity for the first 
personal contact between them and a general exchange of views on the 
major issues which affect the relationships between the two countries". 
@ 

#THE OUTLOOK#

The Vienna meeting will bring together a 
seasoned, 
67-year-old veteran of the cold war who, in Mr& Kennedy's 
own words, is "shrewd, tough, vigorous, well-informed and confident", 
and a 44-year-old President (his birthday is May 29) with a 
demonstrated capacity for political battle but little experience in international 
diplomacy. The announcement last week of the forthcoming 
encounter produced strong reactions in the U& S& of both approval 
and disapproval.   The approval did not arise from an expectation 
of far-reaching agreements at Vienna. The inclination was to accept 
the statement that there would be no formal negotiations. But those 
who were in favor of the meeting felt that a frank exchange between 
the two men and an opportunity to size one another up would prove salutary. 
Mr& Khrushchev is known to rely heavily on his instincts about 
his adversaries and to be a shrewd judge of men. The feeling was 
that he would sense an inner core of toughness and determination in the 
President and that plain talk by Mr& Kennedy would give him pause.

Apart from the personal equation, another reason advanced 
in favor of the meeting was that too often in the past the U&S& 
appeared to have been dragged reluctantly to the summit. Premier Khrushchev 
has made propaganda capital out of that fact and in the end got 
his summit meeting anyway. This time the initiative came, in part 
at least, from Washington. 

#OTHER ALLIES CONSULTED#

There was also 
the fact that by the time he meets Mr& Khrushchev, the President 
will have completed conversations with all the other principal Allied 
leaders. Thus he will be in a position to disabuse the Soviet leader 
of any notions he may have about grave Allied disunity.   Finally, 
there was a wide area of agreement on the value of the President's 
making a final effort in the summit spotlight for a nuclear test 
accord. There is no single issue that has aroused stronger feelings 
throughout the world. If tests are to be resumed, the argument went, 
it is vital that the U& S& make plain that the onus belongs to 
the Soviet Union.   Disapproval of the meeting was based largely 
on the belief that the timing could hardly be worse. After Cuba 
and Laos, it was argued, Mr& Khrushchev will interpret the President's 
consent to the meeting as further evidence of Western weakness- 
perhaps even panic- and is certain to try to exploit the advantage 
he now believes he holds. Moreover, the President is meeting the 
Soviet leader at a time when the Administration has still not decided 
on the scope of America's firm foreign policy commitments. The 
question was raised, for example, as to what attitude the President 
would take if Mr& Khrushchev proposes a broad neutral belt extending 
from Southeast Asia to the Middle East.

THERE ARE, so my biologist friends tell me, mechanisms of 
adaptation and defense that are just too complete and too satisfactory. 
Mollusks are a case in point. The shell, which served the strain 
so well at a relatively early stage in the evolutionary scheme, tended 
to cancel out the possibility of future development. Though this may 
or may not be good biology, it does aptly illustrate the strength and 
the weakness of American Catholic higher education.   There can 
be no doubt that the American Catholic accomplishment in the field 
of higher education is most impressive: our European brethren never 
cease to marvel at the number and the size of our colleges and universities. 
The deeper wonder is how this miracle was accomplished in decades, 
rather than in centuries and by immigrant minorities at that. 
By way of explanation we ourselves are prone to imagine that this achievement 
stems from the same American Catholic zeal and generosity which 
brought the parochial school system into existence.   There 
is, however, one curious discrepancy in this broad and flattering picture. 
Viewing the American Catholic educational achievement in retrospect, 
we may indeed see it as a unified whole extending from grade school 
to university. But the simple truth is that higher education has 
never really been an official American Catholic project; certainly 
not in the same sense that the establishment of a parochial school 
system has been a matter of official policy.   Official encouragement 
is one thing, but the down-to-earth test is the allocation of diocesan 
and parochial funds. American Catholics have responded generously 
to bishops' and pastors' appeals for the support necessary to 
create parochial schools but they have not contributed in a similar 
fashion to the establishment of institutions of higher learning. They 
have not done so for the simple reason that such appeals have hardly 
ever been made. Diocesan authorities generally have not regarded this 
as their direct responsibility.   All of this may be understandable 
enough: it is, however, in fact difficult to see how diocesan 
authorities could have acted otherwise. Yet for better or for worse, 
the truth of the matter is that most American Catholic colleges do 
<not> owe their existence to general Catholic support but rather to 
the initiative, resourcefulness and sacrifices of individual religious 
communities. Community <esprit de corps> has been the protective 
shell which has made the achievement possible.   To understand 
the past history- and the future potential- of American Catholic 
higher education, it is necessary to appreciate the special character 
of the <esprit d' corps> of the religious community. It is something 
more than the arithmetical sum of individual totals of piety and 
detachment. A religious community with a vital sense of mission achieves 
a degree of group orientation and group identification seldom found 
elsewhere. The fact that the group orientation and group identification 
are founded on supernatural principles and nourished by the well-springs 
of devotion simply give them a deeper and more satisfying dimension. 
The net result is a uniquely satisfying sense of comradeship, 
the kind of comradeship which sparks enthusiasm and blunts the cutting 
edge of sacrifice and hardship.   American Catholic colleges 
and universities are, in a very real sense, the product of "private 
enterprise"- the "private enterprise" of religious communities. 
Had it not been for such private enterprise, diocesan authorities 
might of course have been goaded into establishing institutions subsidized 
by diocesan funds and parish collections and staffed by religious 
as paid employees. There is however no point in speculating about such 
a possibility: the fact of the matter is that our institutions of 
higher learning owe their existence to a spirit not unlike that which 
produces the "family business". This "family-community" spirit 
is the real explanation of the marvel of our achievement. ## 

IT IS this spirit which explains some of the anomalies of American 
Catholic higher education, in particular the wasteful duplication 
apparent in some areas. I think for example of three women's colleges 
with pitifully small enrollments, clustered within a few miles of 
a major Catholic university, which is also co-educational. This is not 
an isolated example; this aspect of the total picture has been commented 
upon often enough. It would seem to represent <esprit de corps> 
run riot.   Apart, however, from the question of wasteful duplication, 
there is another aspect of the "family business" spirit 
in American Catholic higher education which deserves closer scrutiny. 
For while the past needs of the Church in this country may have 
been adequately met by collegiate institutions, which in temper and tone 
closely resembled junior colleges and finishing schools, it would 
seem that today's need is for the college which more closely resembles 
the university in its "pursuit of excellence". At the earlier 
"pre-academic excellence" stage of Catholic education, the operation 
could be conducted on an intra-mural community basis. But with today's 
demand for professional qualifications and specialized training, 
the need for "outsiders" become more pressing. ##

THE PROBLEM 
is not merely that more "outside teachers" are needed but 
that a different brand is called for. Commenting on the earlier stage, 
the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University 
Professors 
(in a recent report on the question of faculty participation 
in administrative decision-making) noted that the term "teacher-employee" 
(as opposed to, e&g&, "maintenance employee") was 
a not inapt description. Today however, the "outsider" is likely 
to have professional qualifications of the highest order (otherwise 
the college would not be interested in hiring him) and to be acclimatized 
to the democratic processes of the secular or state university. And 
while no one expects total democracy on the academic scene, the scholar 
will be particularly sensitive to a line between first and second 
class citizenship drawn on any basis other than that of academic rank 
or professional achievement.   In the above mentioned report of 
the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University 
Professors, the basic outlook of the new breed of lay faculty emerges 
very clearly in the very statement of the problem as the members see 
it: "Even with the best of intentions he (the President of the 
university) is loath to delegate such authority and responsibility to 
a group the membership of which, considered (as it must be by him) in 
individual terms, is inhomogeneous, mortal and of extremely varying 
temperament, interests and capabilities. It is natural that he should 
turn for his major support to a select and dedicated few from the organization 
which actually owns the university and whose goals are, in 
their opinion, identified with its highest good and (to use that oft-repeated 
phrase) 'the attainment of excellence'".   The pattern 
here pictured is clearly not peculiar to Notre Dame: it is simply 
that the paradox involved in this kind of control of the institution 
by "the organization which actually owns" it, becomes more obvious 
where there is a larger and more distinguished "outside" faculty. 
It is particularly interesting that those who framed the report 
should refer to "the organization which actually owns the university": 
this seems to show an awareness of the fact that there is more 
to the problem than the ordinary issue of clerical-lay tension. But 
in any case, one does not have to read very closely between the lines 
to realize that the situation is not regarded as a particularly happy 
one. "Outside" faculty members want to be considered partners in 
the academic enterprise and not merely paid employees of a family business.

There are two reasons why failure to come to grips with 
this demand could be fatal to the future of the Catholic university. 
In the first place there is the obvious problem of recruiting high caliber 
personnel. Word spreads rapidly in the tightly knit academic profession, 
much given to attending meetings and conferences. Expressions 
of even low-key dissatisfaction by a Catholic college faculty member 
has the effect of confirming the already existing stereotype. In 
the academic world there is seldom anything so dramatic as a strike or 
a boycott: all that happens is that the better qualified teacher declines 
to gamble two or three years of his life on the chance that conditions 
at the Catholic institution will be as good as those elsewhere.

To appreciate the nature of the gamble, it should be realized 
that while college teaching is almost a public symbol of security, 
that security does not come as quickly or as automatically as it does 
in an elementary school system or in the Civil Service. Much has 
been made of the fact that major Catholic institutions now guarantee 
firm tenure. This is a significant advance but its import should not 
be exaggerated. When a man invests a block of his years at a university 
without gaining the coveted promotion, not only is he faced with the 
problem of starting over but there is also a certain depreciation in 
the market value of his services. A man does not make that kind of 
gamble if he suspects that one or more of the limited number of tenure 
positions is being reserved for members of the "family". ##

JUST 
AS IT is possible to exaggerate the drawing power of the new 
tenure practices, it is also possible to exaggerate the significance 
of the now relatively adequate salaries paid by major Catholic institutions. 
Adequate compensation is indispensable. Yet adequate compensation- 
and particularly <merely> adequate compensation is no substitute 
for those intangibles which cause a man to sacrifice part of his 
earning potential by taking up college teaching in the first place. Broadly 
speaking the total Catholic atmosphere is such an intangible 
but the larger demand is for a sense of creative participation and mature 
responsibility in the total work of the university. Religious who 
derive their own sense of purpose through identification with the religious 
community rather than the academic community are prone to underestimate 
both the layman's reservoir of idealism and his need for this 
identification.   There is no need here to spell out the conditions 
of creative teaching except to point out that, at the college 
level, the sense of community and of community responsibility is even 
more necessary than it is at other levels. The college teacher needs 
the stimulus of communication with other faculty members but he also 
needs to feel that such communication, even informal debates over the 
luncheon table, are a contribution to the total good of the institution. 
But this in turn means that decisions are not merely imposed from 
the top but that there be some actual mechanism of faculty participation.

The second reason for being concerned with the dichotomy 
between faculty members who are part of the "in-group" that owns and 
operates the institution and those who are merely paid employees, is, 
therefore, the baneful effect on the caliber of the teaching itself. 
This is a problem that goes considerably beyond questions of salary 
and tenure. Yet though it may seem difficult to envision any definitive 
resolution of the problem of ownership and control, there are nevertheless 
certain suggestions which seem to be in order.   The first 
is a negative warning: there is no point in the creation of faculty 
committees and advisory boards with high-sounding titles but no real 
authority. In the case of academic personnel the "feeling" of 
participation can hardly be "faked". Competent teachers are well 
versed in the technique of leading students to pre-set conclusions without 
destroying the students' illusion that they are making their own 
decisions. Those who have served as faculty advisers are too familiar 
with the useful but artificial mechanisms of student government to 
be taken in by "busy-work" and <ersatz> decision making. 
In any case it is by no means clear that formally structured organs of 
participation are what is called for at all. In the Notre Dame report, 
reference was made to the fact that faculty members were reduced 
to "luncheon-table communication". In itself there is nothing wrong 
with this form of "participation": the only difficulty on the 
Catholic campus is that those faculty members who are in a position 
to implement policy, i&e&, members of the religious community which 
owns and administers the institution, have their own eating arrangements. 
SEN& JOHN L& McCLELLAN of Arkansas and Rep& David 
Martin of Nebraska are again beating the drums to place the unions 
under the anti-monopoly laws. Once more the fallacious equation is advanced 
to argue that since business is restricted under the anti-monopoly 
laws, there must be a corresponding restriction against labor unions: 
the law must treat everybody equally. Or, in the words of Anatole 
France, "The law in its majestic equality must forbid the rich, 
as well as the poor, from begging in the streets and sleeping under 
bridges".   The public atmosphere that has been generated which 
makes acceptance of this law a possibility stems from the disrepute 
into which the labor movement has fallen as a result of Mr& McClellan's 
hearings into corruption in labor-management relations and, later, 
into the jurisdictional squabbles that plagued industrial relations 
at the missile sites. The Senator was shocked by stoppages over 
allegedly trivial disputes that delayed our missile program. In addition, 
disclosures that missile workers were earning sums far in excess 
of what is paid for equivalent work elsewhere provoked his indignation 
on behalf of the American taxpayer who was footing the bill. 
It is now disclosed that the taxpayer not only pays for high wages, but 
he pays the employers' strike expenses when the latter undertakes 
to fight a strike. <Business Week> (Aug& 9, 1961) reports that 
the United Aircraft Company, against which the International Association 
of Machinists had undertaken a strike, decided to keep its plants 
operating. The company incurred some $10 million of expenses attributable 
to four factors: advertising to attract new employees, hiring 
and training them, extra overtime, and defective work performed by 
the new workers. The company has billed the United States Government 
for $7,500,000 of these expenses under the Defense Department regulation 
allowing costs of a type generally recognized as ordinary and 
necessary for the conduct of the contractor's business.   Rep& 
Frank Kowalski of Connecticut has brought this problem to the 
attention of the Armed Services Committee. The committee remains unresponsive. 
Neither has Congressman Martin nor Senator McClellan 
been heard from on the matter; they are preoccupied with ending labor 
abuses by extending the anti-monopoly laws to the unions. ##

THE 
RECENT publicity attending the successful federal prosecution 
of a conspiracy indictment against a number of electrical manufacturers 
has evoked a new respect for the anti-trust laws that is justified 
neither by their rationale nor by the results they have obtained. The 
anti-trust laws inform a business that it must compete, but along completely 
undefined lines; it must play a game in which there never is 
a winner. The fact is that any business that wants to operate successfully 
cannot follow the law. Hypocrisy thus becomes the answer to a 
foolish public policy.   Let us look at the heavy-electrical-goods 
industry in which General Electric, Westinghouse and a number of 
other manufacturers were recently convicted of engaging in a conspiracy 
to rig prices and allocate the market. The industry is so structured 
that price-setting by a multi-product company will vary with the way 
overhead charges are allocated- whether marginal or average pricing 
is applied.   The problem becomes even more complex where an enterprise 
is engaged in the manufacture of a wide variety of other goods 
in addition to the heavy electrical equipment. Accounting procedures 
can be varied to provide a rationale for almost any price. Naturally, 
enterprises of the size of General Electric are in a position to 
structure their prices in such a way that the relatively small competitors 
can be forced to the wall in a very short time. Should these giants 
really flex their competitive muscles, they would become the only 
survivors in the industry. Uncle Sam would then accuse them of creating 
a monopoly by "unfair competition". But if they show self-restraint, 
they don't get the orders.   Under the circumstances, 
the only protection for the relatively small manufacturers is to engage 
in exactly the kind of conspiracy with the giants for which the latter 
were convicted. Engaging in such a conspiracy was an act of mercy 
by the giants. The paradox implicit in the whole affair is shown by 
the demand of the government, after the conviction, that General Electric 
sign a wide-open consent decree that <it would not reduce prices 
so low as to compete seriously with its fellows>. In other words, 
the anti-trust laws, designed to reduce prices to the consumer on Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday, become a tool to protect the marginal manufacturer 
on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. And which theory would 
govern the enforcers of the law on Sunday? ##

THE QUESTION 
might be asked: "Don't the managements of the heavy-electrical-goods 
manufacturers know these facts? Why did they engage in a 
flood of <mea culpas>, throw a few scapegoats to the dogs and promise 
to be good boys thereafter, expressing their complete confidence in 
the laws"?   The past usefulness of the anti-trust laws to 
management was explained by Thurman Arnold, in <The Folklore of Capitalism>, 
back in 1937. He wrote: "(P& 211) **h the anti-trust 
laws were the answer of a society which unconsciously felt the need 
of great organizations, and at the same time had to deny them a place 
in the moral and logical ideology of the social structure. (P& 214) 
**h anti-trust laws became the greatest protection to uncontrolled 
business dictatorship. (P& 215) **h when corporate abuses were attacked, 
it was done on the theory that criminal penalties would be invoked 
rather than control. **h In this manner, every scheme for direct 
control broke to pieces on the great protective rock of the anti-trust 
laws. (Pp& 228-229) **h in any event, it is obvious that the anti-trust 
laws did not prevent the formation of some of the greatest financial 
empires the world has ever known, held together by some of the most 
fantastic ideas, all based on the fundamental notion that a corporation 
is an individual who can trade and exchange goods without control 
by the government".   This escape from control has led to management's 
evaluating the risk of occasional irrational prosecution as 
worth while. A plea of <nolo contendere>, followed by a nominal fine, 
after all is a small price to pay for this untrammeled license. (The 
penalties handed out in the electrical case, which included jail 
sentences, were unprecedented in anti-trust prosecutions, perhaps because 
the conspirators had displayed unusual ineptness in their pricing 
activities.)   If a substitute mechanism is needed for the control 
of a fictitious impersonal market, quite obviously some method must 
be devised for representing the public interest. A secret conspiracy 
of manufacturers is hardly such a vehicle. However, one can argue that 
no such control is necessary as long as one pretends that the anti-trust 
laws are effective and rational. Quite clearly the anti-trust laws 
are neither effective nor rational- and yet the argument goes that 
they should be extended to the labor union.   THOSE WHO 
favor placing trade unions under anti-trust laws imply that they are advocating 
a brand new reform.   Before 1933, individuals who opposed 
trade unions and collective bargaining said so in plain English. 
The acceptance of collective bargaining as a national policy in 1934, 
implicit in the writing of Section 7~A of the National Industrial 
Recovery Act, has made it impolitic to oppose collective bargaining 
in principle. The Wagner Act, the Taft-Hartley Act and the Landrum-Griffin 
Act all endorse the principle of collective bargaining.

The basic purpose of an effective collective-bargaining system 
is the removal of wages from competition. If a union cannot perform 
this function, then collective bargaining is being palmed off by organizers 
as a gigantic fraud.   The tortured reasoning that unions 
use to deny their ambition to exercise monopoly power over the supply 
and price of labor is one of the things that create a legal profession. 
The problem must be faced squarely. If laborers are merely commodities 
competing against each other in a market place like so many bags 
of wheat and corn (unsupported, by the way, by any agricultural subsidy), 
then they may be pardoned for reacting with complete antagonism 
to a system that imposes such status upon them.   Human labor 
was exactly that- a commodity- in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century 
America. As early as 1776, Adam Smith wrote in <The Wealth of 
Nations>: "We have no acts of Parliament against combining 
to lower the price of work; but many against combining to raise it". 
Eighteenth-century England, upon whose customs our common law was 
built, had outlawed unions as monopolies and conspiracies. In 1825, 
the Boston house carpenters' strike for a ten-hour day was denounced 
by the organized employers, who declared: "It is **h considered 
that all combinations by any classes of citizens intended to **h effect 
the value of labor **h tend to convert all its branches into monopolies".

There were no pious hypocrisies then about being <for> 
collective bargaining, but <against> labor monopoly. The courts 
shared the opinion of the employers. In <People vs& Fisher>, Justice 
Savage of the New York Supreme Court declared:   "Without 
any officious and improper interference on the subject, the 
price of labor or the wages of mechanics will be regulated by the demand 
for the manufactured article and the value of that which is paid 
for it; but the right does not exist to raise **h the wages of the mechanic 
by any forced and artificial means".   Compare this statement 
of a nineteenth-century judge with how Congressman Martin, according 
to the <Daily Labor Report> of Sept& 19, 1961, defends 
the necessity of enacting anti-trust legislation in the field of labor 
"if we wish to prevent monopolistic fixing of wages, production or 
prices and if we wish to preserve the freedom of the employer and his 
employees to contract on wages, hours and conditions of employment".

Senator McClellan is proposing the application of anti-trust 
measures to unions in transportation. His bill, allegedly aimed at 
Hoffa, would amend the Sherman, Clayton and Norris-LaGuardia acts 
to authorize the issuance of federal injunctions in any transportation 
strike and would make it illegal for any union to act in concert 
with any other union- even a sister local in the same international.

Paradoxically, the same week in which Senator McClellan was 
attempting to extend the anti-trust act to labor in transportation, 
the Civil Aeronautics Board was assuring the airlines that if they 
met in concert to eliminate many costly features of air travel, the action 
would not be deemed a violation of the anti-trust act. Indeed, it 
is in the field of transportation that Congress has most frequently 
granted employers exemption from the anti-trust laws; for example, 
the organization of steamship conferences to set freight rates and the 
encouragement of railroads to seek mergers. At the very moment that 
every attempt is being made to take management out from under the irrationality 
of anti-trust legislation, a drive is on to abolish collective 
bargaining under the guise of extending the anti-monopoly laws to unions 
who want no more than to continue to set wages in the same way that 
ship operators set freight rates. ##

THE passage of the 
Sherman Act was aimed at giant monopolies. It was most effective against 
trade unions. In the famous Danbury Hatters case, a suit was 
brought against the union by the Loewe Company for monopolistic practices, 
e&g&, trying to persuade consumers not to purchase the product 
of the struck manufacturer. The suit against the union was successful 
and many workers lost their homes to pay off the judgment.

In 1914, the Clayton Act attempted to take labor out from under 
the anti-trust legislation by stating that human labor was not to be 
considered a commodity. The law could not suspend economics. Labor remained 
a commodity- but presumably a privileged one granted immunization 
from the anti-trust laws.   The courts, by interpretation, 
emasculated the act. In 1922, the United Mine Workers struck the 
Coronado Coal Company. The company sued under the anti-trust laws, 
alleging that the union's activity interfered with the movement of 
interstate commerce. (What other purpose could a striking union have 
but to interrupt the flow of commerce from the struck enterprise?) The 
court first ruled that the strike constituted only an indirect interference 
with commerce. 

#THE NATION#


_THE THREE-FRONT WAR_ At a closed-door session 
on Capitol Hill last week, Secretary of State Christian Herter made 
his final report to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on 
U&S& affairs abroad. Afterward, Tennessee's Democratic Senator 
Albert Gore summed it up for newsmen. What Herter presented, 
said Gore, was "not a very encouraging review". That was something 
of an understatement in a week when the underlying conflict between 
the West and Communism erupted on three fronts. While Communists 
were undermining United Nations efforts to rescue the Congo from chaos, 
two other Communist offensives stirred the Eisenhower Administration 
into emergency conferences and serious decisions. _1) CUBA._ 
Hours after a parade of his new Soviet tanks and artillery, Dictator 
Fidel Castro suddenly confronted the U&S& with a blunt and 
drastic demand: within 48 hours, the U&S& had to reduce its 
embassy and consulate staffs in Cuba to a total of eleven persons (the 
embassy staff alone totaled 87 U&S& citizens, plus 120 Cuban 
employees). President Eisenhower held an 8:30 a&m& meeting with 
top military and foreign-policy advisers, decided to break off diplomatic 
relations immediately. "There is a limit to what the United 
States in self-respect can endure", said the President. "That limit 
has now been reached".   Through Secretary Herter, Ike 
offered President-elect Kennedy an opportunity to associate his new 
Administration with the breakoff decision. Kennedy, through Secretary-designate 
of State Dean Rusk, declined. He thus kept his hands 
free for any action after Jan& 20, although reaction to the break 
was generally favorable in the U&S& and Latin America (<see> 
THE HEMISPHERE). _2) LAOS._ After a White House huddle 
between the President and top lieutenants, the Defense Department reacted 
sharply to a cry from the pro-Western government of Laos that 
several battalions of Communist troops had invaded Laos from North 
Viet Nam. "In view of the present situation in Laos", said the 
Pentagon's announcement, "we are taking normal precautionary actions 
to increase the readiness of our forces in the Pacific". Cutting 
short a holiday at Hong Kong, the aircraft carriers <Lexington> 
and <Bennington> steamed off into the South China Sea, accompanied 
by a swarm of destroyers, plus troopships loaded with marines. 
On the U&S&'s island base of Okinawa, Task Force 116, made 
up of Army, Navy, Marine and Air Force units, got braced to move 
southward on signal.   But by week's end the Laotian cry of 
invasion was read as an exaggeration (<see> FOREIGN NEWS), and 
the U&S& was agreeing with its cautious British and French allies 
that a neutralist- rather than a pro-Western- government might 
be best for Laos. _FRENCH + INDIANS._ There was a moral of 
sorts in the Laotian situation that said much about all other cold-war 
fronts. Political, economic and military experts were all agreed that 
chaotic, mountainous little Laos was the last place in the world 
to fight a war- and they were probably right. "It would be like fighting 
the French and Indian War all over again", said one military 
man. But why was Laos the new Southeast Asian battleground?

At Geneva in 1954, to get the war in Indo-China settled, the 
British and French gave in to Russian and Communist Chinese demands 
and agreed to the setting up of a Communist state, North Viet 
Nam- which then, predictably, became a base for Communist operations 
against neighboring South Viet Nam and Laos. The late Secretary 
of State John Foster Dulles considered the 1954 Geneva agreement 
a specimen of appeasement, saw that resolution would be needed to 
keep it from becoming a calamity for the West. He began the diplomatic 
discussions that resulted in the establishment of ~SEATO. 
"The important thing from now on", he said, "is not to mourn the 
past but to seize the future opportunity to prevent the loss in northern 
Viet Nam from leading to the extension of Communism throughout 
Southeast Asia".   Russian tanks and artillery parading through 
the streets of Havana, Russian intrigue in the Congo, and Russian 
arms drops in Laos (using the same Ilyushin transports that were 
used to carry Communist agents to the Congo) made it plain once more 
that the cold war was all of a piece in space and time. Soviet Premier 
Khrushchev sent New Year's hopes for peace to President-elect 
Kennedy, and got a cool acknowledgment in reply. Considering the 
state of the whole world, the cold war's three exposed fronts did 
not seem terribly ominous; but, in Senator Gore's words, it was 
"not a very encouraging" situation that would confront John F& 
Kennedy on Inauguration Day. 

#THE CONGRESS#


_TURMOIL IN THE 
HOUSE_ As the 87th Congress began its sessions last week, liberal 
Democrats were ready for a finish fight to open the sluice gates controlled 
by the House Rules Committee and permit the free flow of liberal 
legislation to the floor. The liberal pressure bloc (which coyly 
masquerades under the name Democratic Study Group) had fought the 
committee before, and had always lost. This time, they were much better 
prepared and organized, and the political climate was favorable. 
They had the unspoken support of President-elect Kennedy, whose own 
legislative program was menaced by the Rules Committee bottleneck. 
And counting noses, they seemed to have the votes to work their will. 

_DEADLY DEADLOCK._ There were two possible methods of breaching 
the conservative barriers around the Rules Committee: 1) to pack 
it with additional liberals and break the conservative-liberal deadlock, 
or 2) to remove one of the conservatives- namely Mississippi's 
14-term William Meyers Colmer (pronounced Calmer). Caucusing, the 
liberals decided to go after Colmer, which actually was the more drastic 
course, since seniority in the House is next to godliness.

A dour, gangling man with a choppy gait, Colmer looks younger than 
his 70 years, has gradually swung from a moderate, internationalist 
position 
to that of a diehard conservative. He is generally and initially 
suspicious of any federal project, unless it happens to benefit his 
Gulf Coast constituents. He is, of course, a segregationist, but 
he says he has never made an "anti-Negro" speech. For 20 years he 
has enjoyed his power on the Rules Committee. There his vote, along 
with those of Chairman Howard Smith, the courtly Virginia judge, 
and the four Republican members, could and often did produce a 6-6 
deadlock that blocked far-out, 
Democratic-sponsored welfare legislation 
(a tactic often acceptable to the Rayburn-Johnson congressional leadership 
to avoid embarrassing votes). _EQUAL TREATMENT._ There was 
sufficient pretext to demand Colmer's ouster: he had given his 
lukewarm support to the anti-Kennedy electors in Mississippi. Reprisals 
are not unheard of in such situations, but the recent tendency has 
been for the Congress to forgive its prodigal sons. In 1949 the Dixiecrats 
escaped unscathed after their 1948 rebellion against Harry 
Truman, and in 1957, 
after Congressman Adam Clayton Powell campaigned 
for Dwight Eisenhower in 1956, his fellow Democrats did not touch 
his committee assignments, although they did strip him temporarily 
of his patronage. (In the heat of the anti-Colmer drive last week, 
Judge 
Smith threatened reprisal against Powell. Said he: "We will 
see whether whites and Negroes are treated the same around here".) 
But Speaker Sam Rayburn, after huddling in Palm Beach with 
President-elect Kennedy, decided that this year something had to be 
done about the Rules Committee- and that he was the only man who could 
do anything effective.   In a tense, closed-door session with 
Judge Smith, Rayburn attempted to work out a compromise: to add 
three new members to the Rules Committee (two Democrats, including 
one Southerner, and one Republican). Smith flatly rejected the offer, 
and Mister Sam thereupon decided to join the rebels. The next 
morning he summoned a group of top Democrats to his private office and 
broke the news: he would lead the fight to oust Colmer, whom he 
is said to regard as "an inferior man".   News of 
Rayburn's 
commitment soon leaked out. When Missouri's Clarence Cannon got 
the word, he turned purple. "Unconscionable"! he shouted, and 
rushed off to the Speaker's Room to object: "A dangerous precedent"! 
Cannon, a powerful, conservative man, brought welcome support 
to the Smith-Colmer forces: as chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee, he holds over each member the dreadful threat of excluding 
this or that congressional district from federal pork-barrel projects. 
Sitting quietly on an equally big pork barrel was another Judge 
Smith ally, Georgia's Carl Vinson, chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee. _THREAT OF WAR._ As the battle raged in the cloakrooms 
and caucuses, it became clear that Judge Smith could lose. His 
highest count of supporters numbered 72- and he needed nearly twice 
that number to control the 260-member Democratic caucus. The liberals, 
smelling blood, were faced with the necessity of winning three 
big votes- in the Democratic Committee on Committees, in the full 
party caucus, and on the floor of the House- before they could oust 
Colmer. (One big question: If Colmer was to be purged, what should 
the House do about the other three senior Mississippians who supported 
the maverick electors?) In all three arenas, they seemed certain 
of victory- especially with Sam Rayburn applying his whiplash.

But in the prospect of winning the battle loomed the specter 
of losing a costlier war. If the Southerners were sufficiently aroused, 
they could very well cut the Kennedy legislative program to ribbons 
from their vantage point of committee chairmanships, leaving Sam 
Rayburn leading a truncated, unworkable party. With that possibility 
in mind, Arkansas' Wilbur Mills deliberately delayed calling a 
meeting of the Committee on Committees, and coolheaded Democrats sought 
to bring Rayburn and Smith together again to work out some sort 
of face-saving compromise. "Here are two old men, mad at each other 
and too proud to pick up the phone", said a House Democratic leader. 
"One wants a little more power, and the other doesn't want 
to give up any". _BATTLE IN THE SENATE_ The Senate launched the 
87th Congress with its own version of an ancient liberal-conservative 
battle, but in contrast with the House's guerrilla war it seemed 
as <pro forma> as a Capitol guide's speech. Question at issue: 
How big a vote should be necessary to restrict Senate debate- and 
thereby cut off legislation-delaying filibusters?   A wide-ranging, 
bipartisan force- from Minnesota's Democratic Hubert Humphrey 
to Massachusetts' Republican Leverett Saltonstall- was 
drawn up against a solid phalanx of Southern Democrats, who have traditionally 
used the filibuster to stop civil rights bills. New Mexico's 
Clint Anderson offered a resolution to change the Senate's 
notorious Rule 22 to allow three-fifths of the Senators present and 
voting to cut off debate, instead of the current hard-to-get two-thirds. 
Fair Dealer Humphrey upped the ante, asked cloture power for a 
mere majority of Senators. Georgia's Dick Russell objected politely, 
and the battle was joined.   Privately, the liberals admitted 
that the Humphrey amendment had no chance of passage. Privately, 
they also admitted that their hopes for Clint Anderson's three-fifths 
modification depended on none other than Republican Richard Nixon. 
In 1957 Nixon delivered a significant opinion that a majority of 
Senators had the power to adopt new rules at the beginning of each 
new Congress, and that any rules laid down by previous Congresses were 
not binding.   Armed with the Nixon opinion, the Senate liberals 
rounded up their slim majority and prepared to choke off debate 
on the filibuster battle this week. Hopefully, the perennial battle 
of Rule 22 then would be fought to a settlement once and for all. 

#REPUBLICANS# 


_LAST ACT_ Since Election Day, Vice President 
Richard Nixon had virtually retired- by his own wish- from public 
view. But with the convening of the new Congress, he was the public 
man again, presiding over the Senate until John Kennedy's Inauguration. 
One day last week, Nixon faced a painful constitutional chore 
that required him to officiate at a joint session of Congress to 
hear the official tally of the Electoral College vote, and then to 
make "sufficient declaration" of the election of the man who defeated 
him in the tight 1960 presidential election. Nixon fulfilled his 
assignment with grace, then went beyond the required "sufficient declaration".

"This is the first time in 100 years that a candidate 
for the presidency announced the result of an election in which 
he was defeated", he said.

The Masters golf tournament proved last Monday what it can do 
to the strongest men and the staunchest nerves. Gary Player, the small, 
trim South African, was the eventual winner, but in all his 25 
years he never spent a more harrowing afternoon as he waited for the 
victory to drop in his lap. Arnold Palmer, the defending champion, lost 
his title on the 72nd hole after a few minutes of misfortune that 
left even his fellow pros gaping in disbelief.   "Just when you 
think you have it licked, this golf course can get up and bite you", 
Player had said one afternoon midway through the tournament. And 
that is just what happened on the last few holes. The Augusta National 
Golf Club Course got up and bit both Player and Palmer.

Player was the first to feel its teeth. After playing a splendid first 
nine holes in 34- two strokes under par- on this fifth and final 
day of the tournament (Sunday's fourth round had been washed out 
by a violent rainstorm when it was only half completed), Player's 
game rapidly fell to pieces. He bogeyed the 10th. After a journey through 
woods and stream he double-bogeyed the 13th. He bogeyed the 15th 
by missing a short putt and finally scrambled through the last three 
holes without further mishap for a 2-over-par 74 and a 72-hole total 
of 280.   As he signed his scorecard and walked off the course, 
Player was almost in tears. He could read on the nearby scoreboard 
that Palmer, by then playing the 15th hole, was leading him by a stroke. 
Palmer had started the round four strokes behind Player, and at 
one point in the afternoon had trailed by as many as six strokes. Now 
all he had to do was finish in even par to collect the trophy and the 
biggest single paycheck in golf.   When Palmer hit a good straight 
drive up the fairway on the 72nd hole, he seemed to have the championship 
won. But the seven-iron shot he used to approach the green 
strayed into a bunker and lodged in a slight depression. In trying to 
hit it out with a sand wedge Palmer bounced the ball over the green, 
past spectators and down the slope toward a ~TV tower.   Afterwards, 
Palmer told Charlie Coe, his last-round partner, that he 
simply played the hole too fast. He did seem hasty on his second and 
third shots, but then there was an agonizing wait of several minutes while 
Coe graciously putted out, giving Palmer a chance to recover his 
composure, 
which he had quite visibly lost.   When the shaken Palmer 
finally did hit his fourth shot, he overshot the hole by 15 feet. 
Palmer was now putting merely for a tie, and Player, who was sitting 
beside his wife and watching it all on television in Tournament Chairman 
Clifford Roberts' clubhouse apartment, stared in amazement when 
Palmer missed the putt.   Palmer's 281 for the four rounds 
at Augusta was a comfortable four strokes ahead of the next closest 
pro, but it was barely good enough for a second-place tie with Coe. 
The lean and leathery Oklahoma amateur, who has been playing topnotch 
tournament golf for many years, refused to let the Masters jitters 
overtake him and closed the tournament with his second straight 69. 

#END 
AT SEVEN#

Until late last Saturday afternoon Palmer had played 
seven consecutive rounds of golf at the Masters- four last year 
and three this- without ever being out of first place. As evening 
approached and Palmer finished his Saturday round with a disappointing 
one-over-par 73, this remarkable record was still intact, thanks to 
his Thursday and Friday rounds of 68 and 69. His three-round total 
of 210 was three strokes better than the next best score, a 213 by Bill 
Collins, the tall and deliberate Baltimorean who had been playing 
very well all winter long.   But Palmer knew, as did everybody 
else at Augusta, that his streak was about to be broken. Half an hour 
after he finished his round, Player holed out at the 18th green with 
a 69 and a three-round total of 206, four strokes ahead of Palmer.

More than a streak had ended. Long after the erratic climate 
and the washed-out final round on Sunday have become meteorological 
footnotes, the 1961 Masters will be remembered as the scene of the 
<mano a mano> between Arnold Palmer and Gary Player. Unlike most 
such sports rivalries, it appeared to have developed almost spontaneously, 
although this was not exactly the case.   When the winter 
tour began at Los Angeles last January there was no one in sight to 
challenge Palmer's towering prestige. As if to confirm his stature, 
he quickly won three of the first eight tournaments. Player won only 
one. But as the tour reached Pensacola a month ago, Player was 
leading Palmer in official winnings by a few hundred dollars, and the 
rest of the field was somewhere off in nowhere. On the final round at 
Pensacola, the luck of the draw paired Palmer and Player in the same 
threesome and, although it was far from obvious at the time, the gallery 
was treated to the first chapter of what promises to be one of 
the most exciting duels in sport for a long time to come.   On 
that final Sunday at Pensacola neither Palmer nor Player was leading 
the tournament and, as it turned out, neither won it. But whichever 
of these two finished ahead of the other would be the undisputed financial 
leader of the tour. Player immediately proved he was not in the 
least awed by the dramatic proximity of Palmer. He outplayed Palmer 
all around the course and finished with a tremendous 65 to Palmer's 
71. Thereafter, until the Masters, Player gradually increased 
his lead over Palmer in winnings and added one more tournament victory 
at Miami. When they reached Augusta last week, together they had 
won five of the 13 tournaments to date. 

#INSTANT RIVALRY#

On Thursday, 
the first day of the Masters, the contest between Palmer and 
Player developed instantly. It was a dismal, drizzly day but a good 
one on which to score over the Augusta National course. The usually 
skiddy greens were moist and soft, so the golfers were able to strike 
their approach shots boldly at the flag-stick and putt firmly toward 
the hole without too much worry about the consequences. Palmer's 4-under-par 
68 got him off to an early lead, which he shared with Bob Rosburg. 
But Player was only one stroke back, with a 69.   Even 
so, it was still not clear to many in the enormous horde of spectators- 
unquestionably the largest golf crowd ever- that this tournament 
was to be, essentially, a match between Palmer and Player. A lot 
of people were still thinking about Jack Nicklaus, the spectacular 
young amateur, who had a 70; or Ken Venturi, who had a somewhat shaky 
72 but was bound to do better; or Rosburg, whose accurate short 
game and supersensitive putter can overcome so many of Augusta's treacheries; 
or even old Byron Nelson, whose excellent 71 made one 
wonder if he had solved the geriatric aspects of golf. (On Thursday 
nobody except Charlie Coe was thinking of Charlie Coe.)   On 
Friday, a day as cloudless and lovely as Thursday had been gray and 
ugly, the plot of the tournament came clearly into focus. Rosburg 
had started early in the day, and by the time Palmer and Player were 
on the course- separated, as they were destined to be for the rest 
of the weekend, 
by about half an hour- they could see on the numerous 
scoreboards spotted around the course that Rosburg, who ended with a 
73, was not having a good day.   As Player began his second round 
in a twosome with amateur Bill Hyndman, his share of the gallery 
was not conspicuously large for a contender. Player began with a birdie 
on the first hole, added five straight pars and then another birdie 
at the 9th. On the back nine he began to acquire the tidal wave of 
a gallery that stayed with him the rest of the tournament. He birdied 
the 13th, the 15th and the 18th- five birdies, one bogey and 12 pars 
for a 68.   Starting half an hour behind Player in company with 
British Open Champion Kel Nagle, Palmer birdied the 2nd, the 
9th, the 13th and the 16th- four birdies, one bogey and 13 pars for 
a 69. The roar of Palmer's gallery as he sank a thrilling putt would 
roll out across the parklike landscape of Augusta, only to be answered 
moments later by the roar of Player's gallery for a similar triumph. 
At one point late in the day, when Palmer was lining up a 25-foot 
putt on the 16th, a thunderous cheer from the direction of the 18th 
green unmistakably announced that Player had birdied the final hole. 
Without so much as a grimace or a gesture to show that he had noticed 
(although he later admitted that he had) Palmer proceeded to sink 
his 25-footer, and his gallery sent its explosive vocalization rolling 
back along the intervening fairways in reply. 

#THE BOLDNESS OF CHAMPIONS# 

Anyone who now doubted that a personal duel was under way 
had only to watch how these exceptionally gifted golfers were playing 
this most difficult golf course. It is almost axiomatic that golfers 
who dominate the game of golf for any period of time attack their shots 
with a vehemence bordering on violence. The bad luck that can so often 
mar a well-played round of golf is simply overpowered and obliterated 
by the contemptuous boldness of these champions. Bob Jones played 
that way. Byron Nelson did, Hogan did. And last week at the Masters 
Palmer and Player did.   As the third round of the tournament 
began on Saturday and the duel was resumed in earnest, it was Player's 
superior aggressiveness that carried him into the lead. This 
day Palmer had started first. As Player stepped on the first tee 
he knew that Palmer had birdied the first two holes and already was 
2 under par for the day. Player immediately proceeded to follow suit. 
In fact, he went on to birdie the 6th and 8th as well, to go 4 under 
par for the first eight holes.   But Player's real test came 
on the ninth hole, a downhill dogleg to the left measuring 420 yards. 
He hit a poor tee shot, pulling it off into the pine woods separating 
the 9th and first fairways. Having hit one of the trees, the ball came 
to rest not more than 160 yards out. Player then had the choice of 
punching the ball safely out of the woods to the 9th fairway and settling 
for a bogey 5, or gambling. The latter involved hitting a full 
four-wood out to the first fairway and toward the clubhouse, hoping to 
slice it back to the deeply bunkered 9th green.   "I was hitting 
the ball well", Player said later, "and I felt strong. When 
you're playing like that you'd better attack".   Player attacked 
with his four-wood and hit a shot that few who saw it will ever 
forget. It struck the 9th green on the fly and stopped just off the 
edge. From there he chipped back and sank his putt for a par 4.

Palmer, meanwhile, had been having his troubles. They started on 
the 4th hole, a 220-yard par-3. On this day the wind had switched 180` 
from the northwest to the southeast, and nearly every shot on the 
course was different from the previous few days. At the 4th tee Palmer 
chose to hit a one-iron when a three-wood was the proper club, so 
he put the ball in a bunker in front of the green. His bogey 4 on this 
hole and subsequent bogeys at 5 and 7 along with a birdie at 8 brought 
him back to even par.   Starting the second nine, Palmer was 
already four strokes behind Player and knew it.

When Mickey Charles Mantle, the New York Yankees' man 
of muscle, drives a home run 450 feet into the bleachers, his feat touches 
upon the sublime. When Roger Eugene Maris, Mantle's muscular 
teammate, powers four home runs in a double-header, his performance 
merits awe. But when tiny, 145-pound Albert Gregory Pearson of the 
Los Angeles Angels, who once caught three straight fly balls in center 
field because, as a teammate explained, "the other team thought 
no one was out there", hits seven home runs in four months (three 
more than his total in 1958, 1959, and 1960), his achievement borders 
on the ridiculous. This is Baseball 1961. This is the year home runs 
ranged from the sublime to the ridiculous.   It is the year when 
(1) amiable Jim Gentile of the Baltimore Orioles ambled to the 
plate in consecutive innings with the bases loaded and, in unprecedented 
style, delivered consecutive grand-slam home runs; (2) Willie Mays 
of the San Francisco Giants borrowed a teammate's bat and became 
the ninth big leaguer to stroke four home runs in a game; (3) the 
Milwaukee Braves tied a major-league record with fourteen home runs 
in three games and lost two of them; and (4) catcher Johnny Blanchard 
of the New York Yankees matched a record with home runs in four 
successive times at bat, two of them as a pinch-hitter.   Pitchers 
grumble about lively balls and lively bats, the shrinking strike 
zone, and the fact that the knock-down pitch is now illegal. Experts 
point to the thinning of pitching talent in the American League caused 
by expansion. Whatever the reasons, not in 30 years has a single season 
produced such thunderous assaults upon the bureau of baseball records, 
home-run division.   Of all the records in peril, one stands 
apart, dramatic in its making, dramatic in its endurance, and now, 
doubly dramatic in its jeopardy. This, of course, is baseball's most 
remarkable mark: The 60 home runs hit in 1927 by the incorrigible 
epicure, the incredible athlete, George Herman (Babe) Ruth of the 
Yankees.   Since 1927, fewer than a dozen men have made serious 
runs at Babe Ruth's record and each, in turn, has been thwarted. 
What ultimately frustrated every challenger was Ruth's amazing September 
surge. In the final month of the 1927 season, he hit seventeen 
home runs, a closing spurt never matched. 

#DOUBLE THREAT:# 

Always, 
in the abortive attacks upon Ruth's record, one man alone- a 
Jimmy Foxx (58 in 1932) or a Hank Greenberg (58 in 1938) or a Hack 
Wilson (56 in 1930)- made the bid. But now, for the first time 
since Lou Gehrig (with 47 home runs) spurred Ruth on in 1927, two men 
playing for the same team have zeroed in on 60. Their names are Mantle 
and Maris, their team is the Yankees, and their threat is real.

After 108 games in 1927, Ruth had 35 home runs. After 108 
games in 1961, Mickey Mantle has 43, Roger Maris 41. Extend Mantle's 
and Maris's present paces over the full 1961 schedule of 162 
games, and, mathematically, each will hit more than 60 home runs. This 
is the 
great edge the two Yankees have going for them. To better Ruth's 
mark, neither needs a spectacular September flourish. All Mantle 
needs is eight more home runs in August and ten in September, 
and he will establish a new record. In Ruth's day- and until this 
year- the schedule was 154 games. Baseball commissioner Ford Frick 
has ruled that Ruth's record will remain official unless it is 
broken in 154 games.)   "Even on the basis of 154 games, this 
is the ideal situation", insists Hank Greenberg, now vice-president 
of the Chicago White Sox. "It has to be easier with two of them. 
How can you walk Maris to get to Mantle"? 

#ROOMMATES:# 

Neither Mantle nor Maris, understandably, will predict 60 home runs 
for himself. Although both concede they would like to hit 60, they 
stick primarily to the baseball player's standard quote: "The 
important thing is to win the pennant". But one thing is for certain: 
There is no dissension between Mantle, the American League's 
Most Valuable Player in 1956 and 1957, and Maris, the ~MVP 
in 1960. Each enjoys seeing the other hit home runs ("I hope Roger 
hits 80", Mantle says), and each enjoys even more seeing himself 
hit home runs ("and I hope I hit 81").   The sluggers get 
along so well in fact, that with their families at home for the summer 
(Mantle's in Dallas, Maris's in Kansas City), they are rooming 
together. Mantle, Maris, and Bob Cerv, a utility outfielder, share 
an apartment in Jamaica, Long Island, not far from New York 
International Airport. The three pay $251 a month for four rooms (kitchen, 
dining room, living room, and bedroom), with air-conditioning 
and new modern furniture. Mantle and Cerv use the twin beds in the bedroom; 
Maris sleeps on a green studio couch in the living room. They 
divide up the household chores: Cerv does most of the cooking (breakfast 
and sandwich snacks, with dinner out), Mantle supplies the 
transportation (a white 1961 Oldsmobile convertible), and Maris drives 
the 25-minute course from the apartment house to Yankee Stadium. 
Mantle, Maris, and Cerv probably share one major-league record already: 
Among them, they have fifteen children- eight for Cerv, four 
for Mantle, and three for Maris.   As roommates, teammates, 
and home-run mates, Mantle, 29, who broke in with the Yankees ten years 
ago, and Maris, 26, who came to the Yankees from Kansas City 
two years ago, have strikingly similar backgrounds. Both were scholastic 
stars in football, basketball, and baseball (Mantle in Commerce, 
Okla&, Maris in Fargo, N&D&); as halfbacks, both came close 
to playing football at the University of Oklahoma ("Sometimes 
in the minors", Maris recalls, "I wished I had gone to Oklahoma").

To an extent, the two even look alike. Both have blue 
eyes and short blond hair. Both are 6 feet tall and weigh between 195 
and 200 pounds, but Mantle, incredibly muscular (he has a 17-1/2-inch 
neck), looks bigger. With their huge backs and overdeveloped shoulders, 
both must have their clothes made to order. Maris purchases $100 
suits from Simpson's in New York. Mantle, more concerned with 
dress, buys his suits four at a time at Neiman-Marcus in Dallas and 
pays as much as $250 each. 

#LIGHT READING:#

Neither Mantle nor 
Maris need fear being classified an intellectual, but lately Mantle 
has shown unusual devotion to an intellectual opus, Henry Miller's 
"Tropic of Cancer". Mantle so appreciated Miller's delicate 
literary style that he broadened teammates' minds by reading sensitive 
passages aloud during road trips.   Mantle is not normally 
given to public speaking- or, for that matter, to private speaking. 
"What do you and Mickey talk about at home"? a reporter asked 
Maris recently.   "To tell you the truth", Maris said, "Mickey 
don't talk much".   This is no surprising trait for 
a ballplayer. What is surprising and pleasant is that Mantle and Maris, 
under constant pressure from writers and photographers, are trying 
to be cooperative.   Of the two, Mantle is by nature the less 
outgoing, Maris the more outspoken. But last week, when a reporter 
was standing near Mantle's locker, Mickey walked up and volunteered 
an anecdote. "See that kid"? he said, pointing to a dark-haired 
11-year-old boy. "That's [Yogi] Berra's. I'll never 
forget one time I struck out three times, dropped a fly ball, and we 
lost the game. I came back, sitting by my locker, feeling real low, 
and the kid walks over to me, looks up, and says: 'You stunk'".

Maris, in talking to reporters, tries to answer all questions 
candidly and fully, but on rare occasions, he shuns newsmen. "When 
I've made a dumb play", he says, "I don't want to talk to 
anyone. I'm angry".   By his own confession, Maris is an 
angry young man. Benched at Tulsa in 1955, he told manager Dutch Meyer: 
"I can't play for you. Send me where I can play". (Meyer 
sent him to Reading, Pa&.) Benched at Indianapolis in 1956, 
he told manager Kerby Farrell: "I'm not learning anything on 
the bench. Play me". (Farrell did- and Maris led the team to victory 
in the Little World Series.) "That's the way I am", 
he says. "I tell people what I think. If you're a good ballplayer, 
you've got to get mad. Give me a team of nine angry men and I'll 
give you a team of nine gentlemen and we'll beat you nine out of 
ten times". 

#IDOLS' IDOLS:#

One good indication of the two 
men's personalities is the way they reacted to meeting their own heroes. 
Maris's was Ted Williams. "When I was a kid", Maris 
told a sportswriter last week, "I used to follow Williams every day 
in the box score, just to see whether he got a hit or not".

"When you came up to the majors, did you seek out Williams for advice"?

"Are you kidding"? said Maris. "You're 
afraid to talk to a guy you idolize".   Mantle's hero was Joe 
DiMaggio. "When Mickey went to the Yankees", says Mark Freeman, 
an ex-Yankee pitcher who sells mutual funds in Denver, "DiMaggio 
still was playing and every day Mickey would go by his locker, 
just aching for some word of encouragement from this great man, this 
hero of his. But DiMaggio never said a word. It crushed Mickey. 
He told me he vowed right then that if he ever got to be a star, this 
never would be said of him". Mantle has kept the vow. Among all 
the Yankees, he is the veteran most friendly to rookies.   Neither 
Mantle nor Maris is totally devoted to baseball above all else. 
If laying ties on a railroad track, which he once did for $1 an hour, 
paid more than playing right field for the Yankees, Maris would 
lay ties on a railroad track. If working in a zinc mine, which he once 
did for 87-1/2 cents an hour, paid more than playing center field for 
the Yankees, Mantle would work in a zinc mine. But since railroading 
and mining are not the highest paid arts, Mantle and Maris concentrate 
on baseball. They try to play baseball the best they can.

Each is a complete ballplayer. Mantle, beyond any question, can 
do more things well. ("One of the reasons they get along fine", 
says a sportswriter who is friendly with the two men, "is that both 
realize Mantle is head-and-shoulders above Maris".) Hitting, 
Mantle 
has an immediate advantage because he bats both left-handed and right-handed, 
Maris only left-handed. They both possess near classic 
stances, 
dug in firmly, arms high, set for fierce swings. Mantle is considerably 
better hitting for average (.332, fourth in the league, to .280 
for Maris so far this year).   Both are good bunters: Maris 
once beat out eighteen of nineteen in the minor leagues; Mantle 
is a master at dragging a bunt toward first base. Both have brilliant 
speed: Mantle was timed from home plate (batting left-handed) to 
first base in 3.1 seconds, faster than any other major leaguer; Maris 
ran the 100-yard dash in ten seconds in high school and once won a 
race against Luis Aparicio, the swift, base-stealing shortstop of the 
White Sox. Both are good, daring fielders: Mantle covers more 
ground; Maris's throwing arm is stronger.   Yet with all their 
skills, the appeal of Mantle and Maris in 1961 comes down to one 
basic: The home run. With this ultimate weapon, the two Yankees 
may have saved baseball from its dullest season. (American League expansion 
created, inevitably, weaker teams. Only two teams in each league 
[the Yankees and Detroit, the Dodgers and Cincinnati] are battling 
for first place.   Appropriately, the emphasis on the home 
run, at a peak this year, came into being at baseball's lowest moment. 
In 1920, as the startling news that the 1919 White Sox had conspired 
to lose the World Series leaked out, fans grew disillusioned 
and disinterested in baseball. Something was needed to revive interest; 
the something was the home run.

Into Washington on President-elect John F& Kennedy's 
Convair, the <Caroline>, winged Actor-Crooner {Frank Sinatra} 
and his close Hollywood pal, Cinemactor Peter Lawford, Jack 
Kennedy's brother-in-law. Also included in the entourage: a dog 
in a black sweater, Frankie and Peter had an urgent mission: to stage 
a mammoth Inauguration Eve entertainment gala in the capital's 
National Guard Armory. Frankie was fairly glutted with ideas, as 
he had hinted upon his arrival: "It's really tremendous when you 
think Ella Fitzgerald is coming from Australia. I could talk to 
you for three hours and still not be able to give you all of our plans"! 
As the plans were laid, some several thousand fat cats were to 
be ensconced in the armory's $100 seats and in 68 ringside boxes priced 
at $10,000 each. The biggest single act would doubtless be staged 
by Frankie himself: his Inaugural wardrobe had been designed by 
Hollywood Couturier Don Loper, who regularly makes up ladies' ensembles. 
Soon after Loper leaked the news that Frankie had ordered 
"two of everything" just "in case he spills anything", Frankie 
got so mad at the chic designer that he vowed he would not wear a stitch 
of Loper clothing. @ ##

A year after he was catapulted over 
nine officers senior to him and made commandant of the Marine Corps, 
General {David M& Shoup} delivered a peppery annual report 
in the form of a "happy, warless New Year" greeting to his 
Pentagon staff. Said Leatherneck Shoup: "A year ago I took the 
grips of the plow in my hands. After pushing an accumulation of vines 
and weeds from the moldboard, I lifted the lines from the dust and 
found hitched to that plow the finest team I ever held a rein on. Little 
geeing and hawing have been necessary". But Shoup also gave 
the Corps a tilling in spots. Speaking of "pride", he deplored 
the noncommissioned officer "whose uniform looks like it belonged to 
someone who retired in 1940; the officer with the yellow socks or 
the bay window. A few of these people are still around". @ ## 

Old and new briefly crossed paths in the U&S& Senate, then 
went their respective ways. At a reception for new members of Congress, 
Oregon Democrat {Maurine Neuberger}, taking the Senate seat 
held by her husband Richard until his death last March, got a brotherly 
buss from Democratic Elder Statesman Adlai Stevenson, U&S& 
Ambassador-designate to the U&N&. Meanwhile, after 24 years 
in the Senate, Rhode Island's durable Democrat {Theodore 
Francis Greene}- having walked, swum and cerebrated himself to 
the hearty age of 93- left that august body (voluntarily, because he 
could surely have been re-elected had he chosen to run again last November), 
as the oldest man ever to serve in the Senate. @ ##

The 
most famous undergraduate of South Philadelphia High School is 
a current bobby-sox idol, Dreamboat Cacophonist {Fabian} (real 
name: Fabian Forte), 17, and last week it developed that he will remain 
an undergraduate for a while. The principal of the school announced 
that- despite the help of private tutors in Hollywood and Philadelphia- 
Fabian is a 10-o'clock scholar in English and mathematics. 
Lacking his needed credits in those subjects, Fabian will not 
graduate with his old classmates next week. South Philadelphia High's 
principal added that the current delay was caused by the "pressure" 
of a movie that the toneless lad was making. @ ##

To Decathlon 
Man {Rafer Johnson} (TIME cover, Aug& 29), whose gold 
medal in last summer's Olympic Games was won as much on gumption 
as talent, went the A&A&U&'s James E& Sullivan Memorial 
Trophy as the outstanding U&S& amateur athlete of 1960. As 
the world's top sportsman- 
pro or amateur- SPORTS ILLUSTRATED 
tapped golf's confident Arnold Palmer (TIME cover, May 
2), who staged two cliffhanging rallies to win both the Masters and 
U&S& Open crowns, 
went on to win a record $80,738 for the year. 
@ ##

Tooling through Sydney on his way to race in the New Zealand 
Grand Prix, Britain's balding Ace Driver {Stirling Moss}, 
31, all but smothered himself in his own exhaust of self-crimination. 
"I'm a slob", he announced. "My taste is gaudy. I'm 
useless for anything but racing cars. I'm ruddy lazy, and I'm 
getting on in years. It gets so frustrating, but then again I don't 
know what I could do if I gave up racing". Has Moss no stirling 
virtues? "I appreciate beauty". @ ##

One of Nikita 
Khrushchev's most enthusiastic eulogizers, the U&S&S&R&'s 
daily <Izvestia>, enterprisingly interviewed Red-prone Comedian 
{Charlie Chaplin} at his Swiss villa, where he has been in 
self-exile since 1952. Chaplin, 71, who met K& when the Soviet boss 
visited England in 1956, confided that he hopes to visit Russia 
some time this summer because "I have marveled at your grandiose experiment 
and I believe in your future". Then Charlie spooned out 
some quick impressions of the Nikita he had glimpsed: "I was captivated 
by his humor, frankness and good nature and by his kind, strong 
and somewhat sly face".

G& David Thompson is one of those names known to the stewards 
of transatlantic jetliners and to doormen in Europe's best hotels, 
but he is somewhat of an enigma to most people in his own home town 
of Pittsburgh. There the name vaguely connotes new-rich wealth, a 
reputation for eccentricity, and an ardor for collecting art. Last week, 
in the German city of Du^sseldorf, G& David Thompson was 
making headlines that could well give Pittsburgh pause. On display were 
343 first-class paintings and sculptures from his fabled collection- 
and every single one of them was up for sale.   Like Philadelphia's 
late Dr& Albert C& Barnes who kept his own great collection 
closed to the general public (TIME, Jan& 2), Thompson, 
at 61, is something of a legend in his own lifetime. He made his 
fortune during World War /2, when he took over a number of dying 
steel plants and kept them alive until the boom. Even before he hit 
big money, he had begun buying modern paintings. He gave the impression 
of never having read a word about art, but there was no doubt that 
he had an eye for the best.   He was able to smell a bargain- 
and a masterpiece- a continent away, and the Museum of Modern Art's 
Alfred Barr said of him: "I have never mentioned a new artist 
that Thompson didn't know about". He might barge into a gallery, 
start haggling over prices without so much as a word of greeting. 
He could be lavishly generous with friends, cab drivers and bellboys, 
but with dealers he was tough. He bought up Cezannes, Braques, Matisses, 
Legers, a splendid Picasso series, more than 70 Giacometti 
sculptures. He gathered one of the biggest collections of Paul Klees 
in the world. All these he hung in his burglarproof home called Stone's 
Throw, outside Pittsburgh, and only people he liked and trusted 
ever got to see them.   Two years ago Thompson offered his 
collection to the city. But he insisted that it be housed in a special 
museum. Pittsburgh turned him down, just as Pittsburgh society had 
been snubbing him for years. He went then to a 40-year-old Basel art 
dealer named Ernst Beyeler, with whom he had long been trading pictures. 
Last year Beyeler arranged to sell $1,500,000 worth of Klees 
to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, which will house them in 
a museum that is yet to be built. Last week most of the other prizes, 
once offered to Pittsburgh, went on the block.   At the opening 
of the Du^sseldorf show, Thompson himself scarcely glanced at the 
treasures that he was seeing together for the last time. In fact he 
seemed delighted to get rid of them. Some observers speculated that 
this might be his revenge on his home town. Thompson himself said: 
"I want to enjoy once more the pleasure of bare walls waiting for new 
pictures". 

#BREAK IN GEORGIA#

The University of Georgia has long claimed that 
it does not discriminate against any applicant on the basis 
of race or color. But in all its 175 years, not a single Negro 
student has entered its classrooms. Last week Federal District Judge 
William A& Bootle ordered the university to admit immediately 
a "qualified" Negro boy and girl. Their entry will crack the 
total segregation of all public education, from kindergarten through graduate 
school, in Georgia- and in Alabama, Mississippi and South 
Carolina as well.   For 18 months, Hamilton Holmes, 19, and 
Charlayne Hunter, 18, had tried to get into the university. They graduated 
together from Atlanta's Turner High School, where Valedictorian 
Holmes was first in the class and Charlayne third. The university 
rejected them on a variety of pretexts, but was careful never 
to mention the color of their skins. Holmes went to Atlanta's Morehouse 
(Negro) College, where he is a B+ student and star halfback. 
Charlayne studied journalism at Detroit's Wayne State University. 
Last fall, after they took their hopes for entering Georgia to 
court, Judge Bootle ordered them to apply again.   Charlayne 
was "tentatively" admitted for next fall, after state investigators 
questioned her white roommate at Wayne State. But Holmes was rejected 
again "on the basis of his record and interview". The evidence 
in court was testimony about the interview, which for Holmes lasted 
an hour, although at least one white student at Georgia got through 
this ritual by a simple phone conversation. Holmes was asked if he 
had ever visited a house of prostitution, or a "beatnik parlor or teahouse". 
No, said he, but officials still called him "evasive". 
They also said he lied in saying that he had never been "arrested". 
Their reason: Holmes once paid a $20 speeding fine, had his license 
suspended.   Negro lawyers dug into the records of 300 white 
students, found that many were hardly interviewed at all- and few 
had academic records as good as Hamilton Holmes. The real reason 
for his rejection, they argued, is the fact that Georgia law automatically 
cuts off funds for any desegregated school.   Judge Bootle's 
decision: "The two plaintiffs are qualified for admission 
to said university and would already have been admitted had it not been 
for their race and color". The state will appeal- but few think 
it will actually try to close the university. "Surprised and pleased", 
Students Holmes and Hunter may enter the University of Georgia 
this week. 

#CATCH FOR CHICAGO#

When the University of 
Chicago's Chancellor Lawrence A& Kimpton 
submitted his resignation last March, a mighty talent hunt 
gripped the Midway. Out went letters to 60,000 old grads, asking for 
suggestions. Such academic statesmen as James B& Conant were consulted. 
Two committees pondered 375 possible Kimpton successors, including 
Adlai Stevenson, Richard Nixon, and Harvard's Dean McGeorge 
Bundy. The debate led to a decision that Chicago needed neither 
a big name nor an experienced academic administrator, but rather, 
as Trustee Chairman Glen A& Lloyd put it, "a top scholar in 
his own right"- a bright light to lure other top scholars to Chicago.

Last week Chicago happily found its top scholar in Caltech's 
acting dean of the faculty: dynamic Geneticist George Wells 
Beadle, 57, who shared the 1958 Nobel Prize in medicine and physiology 
for discovering how genes affect heredity by controlling cell 
chemistry (TIME, Cover, July 14, 1958).   It fell to Chancellor 
Kimpton, now a Standard Oil (Indiana) executive, to spend 
his nine-year reign tidying up Chicago after the 21-year typhoon of 
Idealist Robert Maynard Hutchins. He threw out some of Hutchins' 
more wildly experimental courses, raised sagging undergraduate enrollment 
to 2,100, nearly doubled endowment to $139.3 million. But though 
Kimpton put Chicago in what he felt was working order, some old grads 
feel that it still needs the kind of lively teachers who filled it 
in the heady Hutchins era.   At Caltech, Geneticist Beadle 
has stuck close to his research as head of the school's famous biology 
division since 1946. But he has shown a sixth-sense ability to spot, 
recruit and excite able researchers, and has developed unexpected 
talents in fund raising and speech-making. Beadle is even that rare 
scientist 
who takes an interest in money matters; he avidly reads the 
<Wall Street Journal>, and took delight in driving a $250 model ~A 
Ford for 22 years, then selling it for $300.

A philosopher may point out that the troubles of the Congo began 
with the old Adam and consequently will never end. But a historian 
might put his finger on a specific man and date, and hold out the hope 
that the troubles will sometime pass away. The man was King Leopold 
/2, of the Belgians, who in 1885 concluded that he had better 
grab a colony while the grabbing was still good. By force, he took under 
his protection, or stole, 900,000 square miles of wilderness in Central 
Africa. This is an area nearly as large as Western Europe; 
and it was filled then as now by quarreling tribes with no political 
or historical unity. Its boundaries had nothing to do with geography 
or ethnic groupings; they were determined by the points at which Leopold's 
explorers and gunmen got tired of walking.   The population 
of the Congo is 13.5 million, divided into at least seven major 
"culture clusters" and innumerable tribes speaking 400 separate 
dialects. The religions of the people include Christianity, Mohammedanism, 
paganism, ancestor worship and animism. The climate ranges from 
the steamily equatorial to the temperate. The hospitals contain patients 
trampled by elephants or run over by sports cars. To make one 
nation out of these disparities would be a problem large enough in any 
case; it has been made far more difficult by what the Belgians have 
done, or failed to do, in the Congo since 1885.   At first the 
Belgian royal family administered the Congo as its own private property. 
But by 1908 its record of brutality had touched the national conscience. 
The Belgian government itself took over administration, commencing 
a program of paternalism unmatched in the history of colonialism. 
One definition of paternalism is "The principle or practice, 
on the part of a government, of managing the affairs of a country in 
the manner of a father dealing with his children". The honor of the 
Belgians in this matter is not to be questioned- only their judgment. 
Ordinarily a father permits his children to grow up in due time- 
but when the colony received independence in 1960 the Congolese child, 
if one imagines him to have been born in 1908, was 52 and had until 
then been treated as an infant. ##

The Belgians were interested 
primarily in the economic development of the Congo, which is rich in 
copper, tin, cobalt, manganese, zinc, and uranium, and cotton and palm 
oil. The colony was administered from Brussels, with neither the 
Congolese nor the resident Belgians having any vote. The beneficiaries 
of this administration were a number of huge cartels in which both 
individuals and the Belgian government itself held stock. In <Inside 
Africa>, John Gunther describes one of these, the Societe Generale, 
as "the kind of colossus that might be envisaged if, let us 
say, the House of Morgan, Anaconda Copper, the Mutual Life Insurance 
Company of New York, the Pennsylvania Railroad, and various 
companies producing agricultural products were lumped together, with 
the United States <government> as a heavy partner".   Had 
they been truly ruthless, the Belgians might have exploited the Congolese 
without compassion. But they were not. They provided a social 
security system which covered all their African employes; their program 
of mass medical care was doubtless the best on the continent; 
they put much effort into public housing. They also instituted a ration 
system under which all employers in the Congo were required to furnish 
their employes with clothing and adequate food. But instead of 
delivering the ration- either in actual commodities or in cash- at 
intervals of perhaps two weeks or a month, the Belgians felt obliged 
to dole it out more often. Would not the children, if they received all 
their food on the first day of the month, eat it up immediately, and 
later go hungry?   The Belgians also placed great emphasis 
on education. During the 1950s there were as many as 25,000 schools in 
the Congo. But almost all the schools were primary. The average Congolese 
can do little more than puzzle out the meaning of "<la chatte>" 
and "<le chien>" and write his name. Some schools were 
technical- the Belgians needed carpenters and mechanics to help exploit 
the land, and trained many. But they did not believe in widespread 
secondary education, much less in college. It was their conviction 
that the people should be "brought up together", a grade at a time, 
until in some indefinite future some might be ready to tackle history, 
economics and political science. Indeed, the Belgians discouraged 
higher education, fearing the creation of a native intellectual elite 
which might cause unrest. When the Congo received its independence 
in 1960 there were, among its 13.5 million people, exactly 14 university 
graduates. ##

Why did the Belgians grant independence to a 
colony so manifestly unprepared to accept it? In one large oversimplification, 
it might be said that the Belgians felt, far too late, the 
gale of nationalism sweeping Africa. They lacked time to prepare 
the Congo, as the British and French had prepared their colonies. The 
Congolese were clamoring for their independence, even though most 
were unsure what it meant; and in Brussels, street crowds shouted, 
"<Pas une goutte de sang!>" (Not one drop of blood!). The 
Belgians would not fight for the privilege of being the detested pedagogue; 
rather than teach where teaching was not wanted, they would 
wash their hands of the mess. It is hard to blame them for this. Yet 
there were other motivations and actions which the Belgians took after 
independence for which history may not find them guiltless. 
As the time for independence approached there were in the Congo no 
fewer than 120 political parties, or approximately eight for each university 
graduate. There were four principal ones. First, there were those 
Congolese (among them Joseph Kasavubu) who favored splitting the 
country into small independent states, Balkanizing it. Second, there 
were those (Moise Tshombe) who favored near-Balkanization, a loose 
federalism having a central government of limited authority, with 
much power residing in the states. Third, there were those (notably Patrice 
Lumumba) who favored a unified Congo with a very strong central 
government. And fourth, there were moderates who were in no hurry 
for independence and wished to wait until the Congo grew up. However, 
the positions of all parties and leaders were constantly shifting.

A final factor which contributed greatly to the fragmentation 
of the Congo, immediately after independence, was the provincial structure 
that had been established by the Belgians for convenience in administration. 
They had divided the Congo into six provinces- Leopoldville, 
Kasai, Kivu, Katanga, Equator and Eastern- unfortunately 
with little regard for ethnic groupings. Thus some provinces contained 
tribes which detested each other, and to them independence meant 
an opportunity for war.   The Belgian Congo was granted its independence 
with what seemed a workable Western-style form of government: 
there were to be a president and a premier, and a bicameral legislature 
elected by universal suffrage in the provinces. Well-wishers 
around the world hoped that the Congo would quickly assume a respectable 
position in the society of nations. If internal frictions arose, 
they could be handled by the 25,000-man Congolese army, the <Force 
Publique>, which had been trained and was still officered by white 
Belgians. The president, Joseph Kasavubu, seemed an able administrator 
and the premier, Patrice Lumumba, a reasonable man.   Twenty-four 
hours after independence the wild tribesmen commenced fighting 
each other. Presently the well-armed members of the <Force Publique>- 
many of them drawn from savage and even cannibalistic tribes, 
erupted in mutiny, rioting, raping and looting. Terror engulfed the thousands 
of Belgian civilians who had remained in the country. The Belgian 
government decided to act, and on July 10 dispatched paratroops 
to the Congo. On July 11 the head of the mineral-rich province of 
Katanga, Moise Tshombe, announced that his province had seceded from 
the country. Confusion became chaos; each succeeding day brought 
new acts of violence. Lumumba and Kasavubu blamed it all on the military 
intervention by the Belgians, and appealed to the United Nations 
to send troops to oust them. ##

On July 14 the Security 
Council- 
with France and Great Britain abstaining- voted the resolution 
which drew the U&N& into the Congo. Vague in wording, it 
called for withdrawal of Belgian troops and authorized the Secretary-General 
"to take the necessary steps **h to provide the [Congolese] 
Government with such military assistance as may be necessary, until, 
through the efforts of the Congolese Government with the technical 
assistance of the United Nations, the national security forces 
may be able, in the opinion of the Government, to meet fully their tasks 
**h".   Secretary-General Hammarskjo^ld decided that it 
would be preferable if the U&N& troops sent into the Congo were 
to come from African, or at least nonwhite, nations- certainly not 
from the U&S&, 
Russia, Great Britain or France. He quickly 
called on Ghana, Tunisia, Morocco, Guinea and Mali, which dispatched 
troops within hours. Ultimately the U&N& army in the Congo 
reached a top strength of 19,000, including about 5,000 from India 
and a few soldiers from Eire and Sweden, who were the only whites.

It took the U&N& three months to bring a modest form of 
order to the Congo. The Belgians were reluctant to withdraw their troops 
and often obstructed U&N& efforts. The wildly erratic nature 
of Patrice Lumumba caused constant problems- he frequently announced 
that he wanted the U&N& to get out of the Congo along with 
the Belgians, and appealed to Russia for help. (However, there is 
little evidence that the late Lumumba was a Communist. Before appealing 
to the U&N& or to Russia, he first appealed to the U&S& 
for military help, and was rejected.) Lumumba further complicated 
the U&N&'s mission by initiating small "wars" with the 
secessionist province of Katanga and with South Kasai which, under 
Albert Kalonji, wanted to secede as well. Meanwhile Russia took every 
opportunity to meddle in the Congo, sending Lumumba equipment for 
his "wars", dispatching "technicians" and even threatening, 
on occasion, to intervene openly.   But by the end of the three-month 
period, in October 1960, something approaching calm settled on 
the Congo. President Kasavubu became exasperated with Lumumba and 
fired him. Lumumba fired Kasavubu. Control of the government- such 
control as there was and such government as there was- passed into 
the hands of Joseph Mobutu, chief of staff of the Congolese army. 
Mobutu promptly flung out the Russians, who have not since played any 
significant part on the local scene, although they have redoubled their 
obstructionist efforts at U&N& headquarters in New York. 
The Belgians- at least officially- departed from the Congo as well, 
withdrawing all of their uniformed troops. But they left behind 
them large numbers of officers, variously called "volunteers" or 
"mercenaries", who now staff the army of Moise Tshombe in Katanga, 
the seceded province which, according to Tshombe, holds 65% of 
the mineral wealth of the entire country.   From October 1960 
to February 1961, the U&N& forces in the Congo took little action. 
There was no directive for it- the Security Council's resolution 
had not mentioned political matters, and in any case the United 
Nations by the terms of its charter may not interfere in the political 
affairs of any nation, whether to unify it, federalize it or Balkanize 
it.   During the five-month lull, civil war smoldered and 
flickered throughout the Congo. In February the murder of Patrice 
Lumumba, who had been kidnaped into Katanga and executed on order of 
Tshombe, again stirred the U&N& to action. On Feb& 21 the 
council passed another resolution urging the taking of "all appropriate 
measures to prevent the occurrence of civil war in the Congo, including 
**h the use of force, if necessary, in the last resort". Although 
the resolution might have been far more specific, it was considerably 
tougher than the earlier one. It also urged that the U&N& 
eject, and prevent the return of, all Belgian and other foreign military 
and political advisers; ordered an investigation of Lumumba's 
death; urged the reconvention of the Congolese Parliament and the 
reorganization of the army. 

#THE PRESIDENCY: TALKING AND LISTENING#

Though President John 
F& Kennedy was primarily concerned with the crucial problems of Berlin 
and disarmament adviser McCloy's unexpected report from Khrushchev, 
his new enthusiasm and reliance on personal diplomacy involved 
him in other key problems of U&S& foreign policy last week.

High up on the President's priority list was the thorny question 
of Bizerte. On this issue, the President received a detailed 
report from his U&N& Ambassador Adlai Stevenson, who had just 
returned from Paris, and Mr& Kennedy asked Stevenson to search 
for a face-saving 
way- for both Paris and Tunis- out of the imbroglio. 
Ideally, the President would like the French to agree on a "status 
quo ante" on Bizerte, and accept a new timetable for withdrawing 
their forces from the Mediterranean base. To continue their important 
conversations about the Tunisian issue and the whole range of 
other problems, Mr& Kennedy invited stevenson to Cape Cod for 
the weekend.

The President also discussed the Bizerte deadlock with 
the No& 2 man in the Tunisian Government, Defense Minister Bahi 
Ladgham, who flew to Washington last week to seek U&S& support. 
The conversation apparently convinced Mr& Kennedy that the 
positions of France and Tunisia were not irreconcilable. Through Ladgham, 
Mr& Kennedy sent a message along those lines to Tunisian 
President Habib Bourguiba; and one U&S& official said: "The 
key question now is which side picks up the phone first".

On the Latin American front, the President held talks with Secretary 
of the Treasury Douglas Dillon before sending him to Uruguay 
and the Inter-American Economic and Social Council (which the President 
himself had originally hoped to attend). Main purpose of the 
meeting: To discuss President Kennedy's Alliance for Progress.

And that was not all. In conferences with Nationalist China's 
dapper, diminutive Vice President Chen Cheng, Mr& Kennedy 
assured Chiang Kai-shek's emissary that the U&S& is as 
firmly opposed as ever to the admission of Red China to the United 
Nations. Chen was equally adamant in his opposition to the admission 
of Outer Mongolia; however the President, who would like to woo 
the former Chinese province away from both Peking and Moscow, would 
promise Chen nothing more than an abstention by the U&S& if Outer 
Mongolia's admission comes to a vote.   The President 
also conferred with emissaries from Guatemala and Nepal who are seeking 
more foreign aid. To Africa, he sent his most trusted adviser, 
his brother, Attorney General Robert Kennedy, on a good-will mission 
to the Ivory Coast. All week long the President clearly was playing 
a larger personal role in foreign affairs; in effect, he was practicing 
what he preached in his Berlin message two weeks ago when he 
declared: 
"We shall always be prepared to discuss international problems 
with any and all nations that are willing to talk, and listen, with 
reason". 

#CRIME: 'SKYJACKED'#

From International Airport 
in Los Angeles to International Airport in Houston, as the 
great four-jet Boeing 707 flies, is a routine five hours and 25 minutes, 
including stopovers at Phoenix, El Paso, and San Antonio. When 
Continental Airlines night-coach Flight 54 took off at 11:30 one 
night last week, there was no reason to think it would take any longer.

The plane put down on schedule at 1:35 a&m& in Phoenix. 
Thirty-one minutes later, when it took off for El Paso, hardly 
anyone of the crew of six or the 65 other passengers paid any attention 
to the man and teen-age boy who had come aboard. At 3:58 a&m&, 
with the plane about twenty minutes out of El Paso, passenger Robert 
Berry, a San Antonio advertising man, glanced up and saw the 
man and boy, accompanied by a stewardess, walking up the aisle toward 
the cockpit. "The man was bent over with his hand on his stomach", 
Berry said. "I figured he was sick".   John Salvador, a 
farmer from Palm Desert, Calif&, was sitting up front and could 
see through the door as the trio entered the cockpit. "The kid had 
a .45 automatic, like they issue in the Army", he said. "The other 
fellow had a .38". Salvador saw the youth hold his .45 against the 
head of stewardess Lois Carnegey; the man put his .38 at the head 
of Capt& Byron D& Rickards.   To Rickards, a 52-year-old 
veteran 30 years in the air, it was an old story: His plane was 
being hijacked in mid-flight again much as it had happened in 1930, when 
Peruvian rebels made him land a Ford tri-motor at Arequipa. But 
last week's pirates, like the Cuban-American who recently hijacked 
an Eastern Airlines Electra (NEWSWEEK, Aug& 7), wanted to 
go to Havana. _STALLING:_ "Tell your company there are four 
of us here 
with guns", the elder man told Rickards. The pilot radioed 
El Paso International Airport with just that message. But, he 
told the "skyjackers", the 707 didn't carry enough fuel to reach 
Havana; they would have to refuel at El Paso.   Most passengers 
didn't know what had happened until they got on the ground. 
Jerry McCauley of Sacramento, Calif&, one of some twenty Air Force 
recruits on board, awoke from a nap in confusion. "The old man 
came from the front of the plane and said he wanted four volunteers 
to go to Cuba", McCauley said, "and like a nut I raised my hand. 
I thought he was the Air Force recruiter".   What the man 
wanted was four persons to volunteer as hostages, along with the crew. 
They chose four: Jack Casey, who works for Continental Airlines 
in Houston; Fred Mullen from Mercer Island, Wash&; 
Pfc& 
Truman Cleveland of St& Augustine. Fla&, and Leonard Gilman, 
a former college boxer and veteran of the U&S& Immigration 
Service Border Patrol. Everybody else was allowed to file off the 
plane after it touched down at El Paso at 4:18 a&m&. 
They found a large welcoming group- El Paso policemen, Border Patrol, 
sheriff's deputies, and ~FBI men, who surged around the 
plane with rifles and submarine guns. Other ~FBI men, talking with 
the pilot from the tower, conspired with him to delay the proposed 
flight to Havana. The ground crew, which ordinarily fuels a 707 in twenty 
minutes, took fully three hours. Still more time was consumed while 
the pilot, at the radioed suggestion of Continental president Robert 
Six, tried to persuade the armed pair to swap the Boeing jet for 
a propeller-driven Douglas ~DC-7.   Actually, the officers 
on the ground had no intention of letting the hijackers get away with 
any kind of an airplane; they had orders to that effect straight 
from President Kennedy, who thought at first, as did most others, that 
it was four followers of Cuba's Fidel Castro who had taken over 
the 707. Mr& Kennedy had been informed early in the day of the 
attempt to steal the plane, kept in touch throughout by telephone. At 
one time, while still under the impression that he was dealing with a 
Cuban plot, the President talked about invoking a total embargo on 
trade with Cuba.   As the morning wore on and a blazing West Texas 
sun wiped the shadows off the Franklin Mountains, police got close 
enough to the plane to pry into the baggage compartment. From the 
luggage, they learned that the two air pirates, far from being Cubans, 
were native Americans, subsequently identified as Leon Bearden, 
50-year-old ex-convict from Coolidge, Ariz&, and his son, Cody, 
16, a high-school junior. _TENSION_ The heat and strain began 
to tell on the Beardens. The father, by accident or perhaps to show, 
as he said, "we mean business", took the .45 and fired a slug 
between the legs of Second Officer Norman Simmons. At 7:30 a&m&, 
more than three hours after landing, the Beardens gave an ultimatum:

Take off or see the hostages killed.   The tower 
cleared the plane for take-off at 8 a&m&, and Captain Rickards 
began taxiing toward the runway.   Several police cars, loaded with 
armed officers, raced alongside, blazing away at the tires of the 
big jet. The slugs flattened ten tires and silenced one of the inboard 
engines; the plane slowed to a halt. Ambulances, baggage trucks, 
and cars surrounded it.   The day wore on. At 12:50 p&m& 
a ramp was rolled up to the plane. A few minutes later, ~FBI agent 
Francis Crosby, talking fast, eased up the ramp to the plane, unarmed. 
While Crosby distracted the Beardens, stewardesses Carnegey 
and Toni Besset dropped out of a rear door. So did hostages Casey, 
Cleveland, and Mullen. That left only the four crew members, Crosby, 
and Border Patrolman Gilman, all unarmed, with the Beardens. 
The elder Bearden had one pistol in his hand, the other in a hip pocket. 
Gilman started talking to him until he saw his chance. He caught 
officer Simmons' eye, nodded toward young Bearden, and- "I 
swung my right as hard as I could. Simmons and Crosby jumped the boy 
and it was all over".   Frog-marched off the airplane at 1:48 
p&m&, the Beardens were held in bail of $100,000 each on charges 
of kidnapping and transporting a stolen plane across state lines. 
(Bearden reportedly hoped to peddle the plane to Castro, and live high 
in Cuba.) Back home in Coolidge, Ariz&, his 36-year-old wife, 
Mary, said: "I thought they were going to Phoenix to look for 
jobs". 

#CONGRESS: MORE MUSCLE#

Taking precedence over all other 
legislation on 
Capitol Hill last week was the military strength of 
the nation. The Senate put other business aside as it moved with unaccustomed 
speed and unanimity to pass- 85 to 0- the largest peacetime 
defense budget in U&S& history.   With the money all 
but in hand, however, the Administration indicated that, instead of 
the 225,000 more men in uniform that President Kennedy had requested, 
the armed forces would be increased by only 160,000. The "hold-back", 
as Pentagon mutterers labeled it, apparently was a temporary 
expedient intended to insure that the army services are built up gradually 
and, thus, the new funds spent prudently.   In all, the Senate 
signed a check for $46.7 billion, which not only included the extra 
$3.5 billion requested the week before by President Kennedy, but 
tacked on $754 million more than the President had asked for. (The 
Senate, on its own, decided to provide additional ~B-52 and other 
long-range bombers for the Strategic Air Command.) The House, which 
had passed its smaller appropriation before the President's urgent 
call for more, was expected to go along with the increased defense 
budget in short order.   In other areas, Congressional action last 
week included:   @ The Senate (by voice vote) and the House 
(by 224-170) passed and sent to the White House the compromise 
farm bill which the President is expected to sign, not too unhappily.

@ The Senate also voted $5.2 billion to finance the government's 
health, welfare, and labor activities.   Debate on the 
all-important foreign-aid 
bill, with its controversial long-range proposals, 
had just begun on the Senate floor at the weekend. White House 
legislative aides were still confident the bill would pass intact. 

#FOOD: STEW A LA MULLIGATAWNY#

Most members of the U&S& Senate, 
because they are human, like to eat as high on the hog as they 
can. But, because they are politicians, they like to talk as poor-mouth 
as the lowliest voter. As a result, ever since 1851 when the Senate 
restaurant opened in the new wing of the Capitol Building, the senators 
have never ceased to grumble about the food- even while they 
opposed every move that might improve it.   Over the years, enlivened 
chiefly by disputes about the relative merits of Maine and Idaho 
potatoes, the menu has pursued its drab all-American course. Individual 
senators, with an eye to the voters back home, occasionally introduced 
smelts from Michigan, soft-shell crabs from Maryland, oysters 
from Washington, grapefruit from Florida. But plain old bean soup, 
served daily 
since the turn of the century (at the insistence of the 
late Sen& Fred Dubois of Idaho), made clear to the citizenry that 
the Senate's stomach was in the right place.   In a daring 
stroke, the Senate ventured forth last week into the world of haute 
cuisine and hired a $10,000-per-year French-born maitre d'hotel.

{Holders of toll-road bonds are finding improvements in monthly 
reports on operation of the turnpikes}.   {Long-term trend 
of traffic on these roads seems clearly upward. Higher toll rates 
also are helping boost revenues}.   {Result is a better prospect 
for a full payoff by bonds that once were regarded as highly speculative}.

Things are looking up these days for many of the 
State turnpikes on which investors depend for income from their toll-road 
bonds.   traffic on nearly all the turnpikes has been growing. 
That added traffic means rising streams of dimes and quarters at toll 
gates.   As a result of the new outlook for turnpikes, investors 
who bought toll-road bonds when these securities ranked as outright 
speculations are now finding new hope for their investments.

Another 
result is that buyers are tending to bid up the prices of these 
tax-exempt bonds.   Other tax-exempt bonds of State and local 
governments hit a price peak on February 21, according to Standard 
+ Poor's average. On balance, prices of those bonds have slipped 
a bit since then. However, in the same three-month period, toll-road 
bonds, as a group, have bucked this trend. On these bonds, price rises 
since February 21 easily outnumber price declines. 

#TAX-FREE RETURNS.# 

Investors, however, still see an element of more-than-ordinary 
risk in the toll-road bonds. You find the evidence of that in the 
chart on this page.   Many of the toll-road bonds still are selling 
at prices that offer the prospect of an annual yield of 4 per cent, 
or very close to that. And this is true in the case of some turnpikes 
on which revenues have risen close to, or beyond, the point at which 
the roads start to pay all operating costs plus annual interest on 
the bonds.   That 4 per cent yield is well below the return to be 
had on good corporation bonds. It's not much more, in fact, than 
the return that is offered on U& S& Treasury bonds.   For 
investors whose income is taxed at high rates, though, a tax-free yield 
of 4 per cent is high. It is the equivalent of 8 per cent for an unmarried 
investor with more than $16,000 of income to be taxed, or for 
a married couple with more than $32,000 of taxed income. 

#SWELLING 
TRAFFIC.#

A new report on the earnings records of toll roads in the 
most recent 12-month period- ending in February or March- shows 
what is happening. The report is based on a survey by Blyth + Company, 
investment bankers.   Nearly all the turnpikes show gains in 
net revenues during the period.   And there is the bright note: 
The gains were achieved in the face of temporary traffic lags late 
in 1960 and early in 1961 as a result of business recession. Many 
of the roads also were hit by an unusually severe winter.   Indication: 
The long-term trend of turnpike traffic is upward.   Look, 
for example, at the Ohio Turnpike. Traffic on that road slumped 
sharply in January and February, as compared with those same months 
in 1960. Then March brought an 18 per cent rise in net revenues- 
after operating costs.   As a result, the road's net revenues 
in the 12 months ending March 31 were 186 per cent of the annual interest 
payments on the turnpike bonds. That was up from 173 per cent 
in the preceding 12 months.   That same pattern of earnings shows 
up on the Massachusetts Turnpike. Operating revenues were off in 
the first three months of 1961, but up for the 12 months ending in March. 
Costs were held down, despite a bitter winter.   For the 
year, the road earned 133 per cent of its interest costs, against 121 
per cent in the preceding period. The road's engineers look for further 
improvement when the turnpike is extended into Boston. 

#SLOW SUCCESSES.# 

Some turnpikes have not been in full operation long enough 
to prove what they can do. The 187-mile Illinois State Toll 
Highway, 
for example, was not opened over its entire length until December, 1958. 
In the 12 months ended in February, 1960, the highway earned enough 
to cover 64 per cent of its interest load- with the remainder paid 
out of initial reserves. In the 12 months ended in February, 1961, 
this highway earned 93 per cent of its interest.   That improvement 
is continuing. In the first two months of 1961, earnings of the 
Illinois highway available for interest payments were up 55 per cent 
from early 1960.   Success, for many turnpikes, has come hard. 
Traffic frequently has failed to measure up to engineers' rosy estimates. 
In these cases, the turnpike managements have had to turn to 
toll-rate increases, or to costly improvements such as extensions or 
better 
connections with other highways.   Many rate increases already 
have been put into effect. Higher tolls are planned for July 1, 
1961, on the Richmond-Petersburg, Va&, Turnpike, and proposals for 
increased tolls on the Texas Turnpike are under study. 

#EASIER 
ACCESS.#

Progress is being made, too, in improving motorists' access 
to many turnpikes. The Kansas Turnpike offers an illustration. 
Net earnings of that road rose from 62 per cent of interest requirements 
in calendar 1957 to 86 per cent in the 12 months ended Feb& 28, 
1961.   Further improvements in earnings of the Kansas Turnpike 
are expected late in 1961, with the opening of a new bypass at Wichita, 
and still later when the turnpike gets downtown connections in 
both Kansas City, Kans&, and Kansas City, Mo&. Meanwhile, there 
appears to be enough money in the road's reserve fund to cover 
the interest deficiency for eight more years. 

#FOR SOME ROADS, TROUBLES.# 

Investors studying the toll-road bonds for opportunities find 
that not all roads are nearing their goals.   Traffic and revenues 
on the Chicago Skyway have been a great disappointment to planners 
and investors alike. If nothing is done, the prospect is that that 
road will be in default of interest in 1962. West Virginia toll bonds 
have defaulted in interest for months, and, despite recent improvement 
in revenues, holders of the bonds are faced with more of the same.

These, however, are exceptions. The typical picture at this 
time is one of steady improvement.   It's going to take time 
for investors to learn how many of the toll-road bonds will pay out in 
full. Already, however, several of the turnpikes are earning enough 
to cover interest requirements by comfortable margins. Many others are 
attracting the traffic needed to push revenues up to the break-even 
point. 
##

@ A top American official, after a look at Europe's 
factories, thinks the <U&S& is in a "very serious situation" 
competitively.>   <Commerce Secretary Luther Hodges,> 
accompanied by a member of our staff, on May 10 toured plants of 
two of Italy's biggest companies- <Fiat,> the auto producer, 
and <Olivetti,> maker of typewriters and calculating machines.

Our staff man cabled from Turin as follows-   "Follow 
Secretary Hodges through the Fiat plant, and you learn this:

"One, <modern equipment>- much of it supplied under the 
Marshall Plan- enables Fiat to turn out 2,100 cars a day. About 
half of these are exported.   "Two, <wage costs> are a fraction 
of the U&S& costs. A skilled worker on the assembly line, 
for example, earns $37 a week.   "Three, <labor troubles> 
are infrequent. Fiat officials say they have had no strikes for more 
than six years.   "Said Secretary Hodges: 'It's a tough 
combination for the U&S& to face'.   <"Olivetti 
had a special interest> for Hodges. Olivetti took over Underwood, 
the U&S& typewriter maker, in late 1959. Within a year, without 
reducing wages, Underwood's production costs were cut one third, 
prices were slashed. The result has been that exports of Underwood 
products have doubled.   "The Olivetti plant near Turin has 
<modern layout, modern machinery.> The firm is <design-conscious, 
sales-conscious, advertising-conscious.>   "Hodges is 
trying 
to get more foreign business to go to the U&S&. The inflow 
of foreign capital would help the U&S& balance of payments.

"Hodges predicted: 'I think we will see more foreign firms 
coming to the U&S&. 
There are many places where we can use their 
vigor and new ideas'". ##

@ <Foreign competition> has 
become so severe in certain textiles that Washington is exploring new 
ways of handling competitive imports.   The recently unveiled 
<Kennedy moves to control the international textile market> can be 
significant for American businessmen in many lines.   <Important 
aspects> of the Kennedy textile plans are these:   <An 
international conference> of the big textile-importing and textile-exporting 
countries will be called shortly by President Kennedy.

<Chief aims of the proposed conference> are worth noting.

The U&S& will try to get agreement among the industrialized 
countries to <take more textile imports> from the less-developed 
countries over the years.   <Point is> that developing countries 
often build up a textile industry first, need encouragement to 
get on their feet. If they have trouble exporting, international bill 
for their support will grow larger than it otherwise would.   <Idea 
is> to let these countries earn their way as much as possible. 
##

@ At the same time, <another purpose> of the conference 
will be to get certain low-wage countries to control textile exports- 
especially dumping of specific products- to high-wage textile-producing 
countries.   <Japan,> since 1957, has been "voluntarily" 
curbing exports of textiles to the U&S&. <Hong Kong, 
India and Pakistan> have been limiting exports of certain types 
of textiles to Britain for several years under the "Lancashire Pact".

None of these countries is happy with these arrangements.

<The Japanese want to increase exports to the U&S&> 
While they have been curbing shipments, they have watched Hong Kong 
step in and capture an expanding share of the big U&S& market.

<Hong Kong interests> loudly protest limiting their exports 
to Britain, while Spanish and Portuguese textiles pour into 
British market unrestrictedly.   <The Indians and Pakistanis> 
are chafing under similar restrictions on the British market for 
similar reasons.   <The Kennedy hope> is that, at the conference 
or through bilateral talks, the low-wage textile-producing countries 
in Asia and Europe will see that "dumping" practices cause 
friction all around and may result in import quotas.   <Gradual, 
controlled expansion> of the world's textile trade is what President 
Kennedy wants. This may point the way toward international stabilization 
agreements in other products. <It's an important clue 
to Washington thinking.> ##

@ Note, too, that the Kennedy 
textile plan looks toward modernization or shrinkage of the U&S& 
textile industry.   <"Get competitive or get out".> In 
veiled terms, that's what the Kennedy Administration is saying to 
the American textile industry. <The Government will help> in 
transferring companies and workers into new lines, where modernization 
doesn't seem feasible. <Special depreciation> on new textile machinery 
may be allowed. <Government research> will look into new 
products and methods.   <Import quotas aren't ruled out> 
where the national interest is involved.   But the Kennedy Administration 
<doesn't favor> import quotas. Rather, they are impressed 
with the British Government's success in forcing- and helping- 
the British textile industry to shrink and to change over to 
other products.   What's happening in textiles can be <handwriting 
on the wall> for other lines having difficulty competing with 
imports from low-wage countries. ##

@ Among the highest-paid workers 
in the world are U&S& coal miners. Yet U&S& coal is 
cheap enough to make foreign steelmakers' mouths water.   <Steel 
Company of Wales,> a British steelmaker, wants to bring in 
Virginia coal, cut down on its takings of Welsh coal in order to be 
able to compete more effectively- especially in foreign markets.

<Virginia coal,> delivered by ship in Wales, will be about 
$2.80 a ton cheaper than Welsh coal delivered by rail from nearby mines.

<U&S& coal is cheap,> despite high wages, because 
of widespread mechanization of mines, wide coal seams, attactive rates 
on ocean freight. Many of the coal seams in the nationalized British 
mines are twisting, narrow and very deep.   <Productivity 
of U&S& miners> is twice that of the British.   <Welsh 
coal miners,> Communist-led, are up in arms at the suggestion that 
the steel company bring in American coal. They threaten to strike.

The British Government will have to decide whether to let 
U&S& coal in. The British coal industry is unprofitable, has large 
coal stocks it can't sell.

EVERY library borrower, or at least those whose taste goes 
beyond the five-cent fiction rentals, knows what it is to hear the librarian 
say apologetically, "I'm sorry, but we don't have that 
book. There wouldn't be much demand for it, I'm afraid".

Behind this reply, and its many variations, is the ever-present budget 
problem all libraries must face, from the largest to the smallest. 
What to buy out of the year's grist of nearly 15,000 book titles? 
What to buy for adult and child readers, for lovers of fiction and 
nonfiction, for a clientele whose wants are incredibly diversified, when 
your budget is pitifully small? Most library budgets are hopelessly 
inadequate. A startlingly high percentage do not exceed $500 annually, 
which includes the librarian's salary, and not even the New 
York Public has enough money to meet its needs- this in the world's 
richest city. The plight of a small community library is proportionately 
worse.   Confronted with this situation, most libraries 
either endure the severe limitations of their budgets and do what they 
can with what they have, or else depend on the bounty of patrons and 
local governments to supplement their annual funds. In some parts of 
the country, however, a co-operative movement has begun to grow, under 
the wing of state governments, whereby, with the financial help of the 
state, libraries share their book resources on a county-wide or regional 
basis.   New York State has what is probably the most advanced 
of these co-operative systems, so well developed that it has become 
a model for others to follow. Because it is so large a state, with 
marked contrasts in population density, the organization of the New 
York co-operative offers a cross-section of how the plan works. At 
one extreme are the systems of upper New York State, where libraries 
in two or more counties combine to serve a large, sparsely populated 
area. At the other are organizations like the newly formed Nassau Library 
System, in a high-density area, with ample resources and a rapidly 
growing territory to serve.   Both these types, and those 
in between, are in existence by reason of a legislative interest in libraries 
that began at Albany as early as 1950, with the creation by the 
legislature of county library systems financed by county governments 
with matching funds from the state. It was a step in the right direction, 
but it took an additional act passed in 1958 to establish fully 
the thriving systems of today.   Under this law annual grants are 
given to systems in substantial amounts. An earlier difficulty was 
overcome by making it clear that individual libraries in any area might 
join or not, as they saw fit. Some library boards are wary of the 
plan. A large, well-stocked library, surrounded in a county by smaller 
ones, may feel that the demands on its resources are likely to be too 
great.  A small library may cherish its independence and established 
ways, and resist joining in a cooperative movement that sometimes seems 
radical to older members of the board.   Within a system, however, 
the autonomy of each member library is preserved. The local community 
maintains responsibility for the financial support of its own library 
program, facilities, and services, but wider resources and additional 
services become available through membership in a system. All 
services are given without cost to members. So obvious are these advantages 
that nearly 95 per cent of the population of New York State 
now has access to a system, and enthusiastic librarians foresee the day, 
not too distant, when all the libraries in the state will belong to 
a co-op. ##

TO SET up a co-operative library system, the law 
requires a central book collection of 100,000 nonfiction volumes as 
the nucleus, and the system is organized around it. The collection may 
be in an existing library, or it may be built up in a central collection. 
Each system develops differently, according to the area it serves, 
but the universal goal is to pool the resources of a given area for 
maximum efficiency. The basic state grant is thirty cents for each 
person served, and there is a further book incentive grant that provides 
an extra twenty cents up to fifty cents per capita, if a library spends 
a certain number of dollars.   In Nassau County, for example, 
the heavily settled Long Island suburb of New York City, the 
system is credited by the state with serving one million persons, a figure 
that has doubled since 1950. This system, by virtue of its variety 
and size, offers an inclusive view of the plan in operation.

The Nassau system recognizes that its major task it to broaden reference 
service, what with the constant expansion of education and knowledge, 
and the pressure of population growth in a metropolitan area. The 
need is for reference works of a more specialized nature than individual 
libraries, adequate to satisfy everyday needs, could afford. Nassau 
is currently building a central collection of reference materials 
in its Hempstead headquarters, which will reach its goal of 100,000 
volumes by 1965.   The major part of this collection is in the 
central headquarters building, and the remainder is divided among five 
libraries in the system designated as subject centers. Basic 
reference 
tools are the backbone of the collection, but there is also specialization 
in science and technology, an indicated weakness in local libraries. 
On microfilm, headquarters also has a file of the <New York 
Times> from its founding in 1851 to the present day, as well as bound 
volumes of important periodicals. The entire headquarters collection 
is available to the patrons of all members on interlibrary loans.

Headquarters gets about 100 requests every day. It is connected 
by teletype with the State Library in Albany, which will supply any 
book to a system that the system itself cannot provide. The books are 
carried around by truck in canvas bags from headquarters to the other 
libraries.   Each subject center library was chosen because 
of its demonstrated strength in a particular area, which headquarters 
could then build upon. East Meadow has philosophy, psychology, and 
religion; Freeport houses social science, pure science, and language; 
history, biography, and education are centered in Hempstead; Levittown 
has applied science, business, and literature; while Hewlett-Woodmere 
is the repository of art, music, and foreign languages. 
The reference coordinator at headquarters also serves as a consultant, 
and is available to work with the local librarian in helping to strengthen 
local reference service.   This kind of cooperation is not 
wholly new, of course. Public libraries in Nassau County have been 
lending books to each other by mail for a quarter-century, but the system 
enables this process to operate on an organized and far more comprehensive 
basis. Local libraries find, too, that the new plan saves 
tax dollars because books can be bought through the system, and since 
the system buys in bulk it is able to obtain larger discounts than would 
be available to an individual library. The system passes on these 
savings to its members. Further money is saved through economy in bookkeeping 
and clerical detail as the result of central billing.

Books are not the only resource of the system. Schools and community 
groups turn to the headquarters film library for documentary, art, 
and experimental films to show at libraries that sponsor local programs, 
and to organizations in member communities. The most recent film 
catalogue, available at each library, lists 110 titles presently in the 
collection, any of which may be borrowed without charge. This catalogue 
lists separately films suitable for children, young adults, or adults, 
although some classics cut across age groups, such as "Nanook 
of the North", "The Emperor's Nightingale", and "The 
Red Balloon". Workshops are conducted by the system's audio-visual 
consultant for the staffs of member libraries, teaching them the effective 
use of film as a library service.   The system well understands 
that one of its primary responsibilities is to bring children 
and books together; consequently an experienced children's librarian 
at headquarters conducts a guidance program designed to promote well-planned 
library activities, cooperating with the children's librarians 
in member libraries by means of individual conferences, workshops, 
and frequent visits. Headquarters has also set up a central juvenile 
book-review and book-selection center, to provide better methods of 
purchasing and selection. Sample copies of new books are on display 
at headquarters, where librarians may evaluate them by themselves or in 
workshop groups. Story hours, pre-school programs, activities with 
community agencies, and lists of recommended reading are all in the province 
of the children's consultant.   Headquarters of the Nassau 
system is an increasingly busy place these days, threatening to expand 
beyond its boundaries. In addition to the interlibrary loan service 
and the children's program, headquarters has a public relations 
director who seeks to get wider grassroots support for quality library 
service in the county; it prepares cooperative displays (posters, 
booklists, brochures, and other promotional material) for use in member 
libraries; it maintains a central exhibit collection to share displays 
already created and used; and it publishes <Sum and Substance>, 
a monthly newsletter, which reports the system's activities to 
the staffs and trustees of member libraries. The system itself is governed 
by a board of trustees, geographically representing its membership.

In Nassau, as in other systems, the long-range objective 
is to bring the maximum service of libraries to bear on the schools, and 
on adult education in general. Librarians, a patient breed of men 
and women who have borne much with dedication, can begin to see results 
today. Library use is multiplying daily, and the bulk of the newcomers 
are those maligned Americans, the teen-agers. To them especially 
the librarians, with the help of co-ops, hope they will never have to 
say, "I'm sorry, we don't have that book".

TODAY, more than ever before, the survival of our free society 
depends upon the citizen who is both informed and concerned. The 
great advances made in recent years in Communist strength and in our 
own capacity to destroy require an educated citizenry in the Western 
world. The need for lifetime reading is apparent. Education must not 
be limited to our youth but must be a continuing process through our 
entire lives, for it is only through knowledge that we, as a nation, 
can cope with the dangers that threaten our society.   The desire 
and ability to read are important aspects of our cultural life. We 
cannot consider ourselves educated if we do not read; if we are not 
discriminating in our reading; if we do not know how to use what we 
do read. We must not permit our society to become a slave to the scientific 
age, as might well happen without the cultural and spiritual restraint 
that comes from the development of the human mind through wisdom 
absorbed from the written word.   A fundamental source of knowledge 
in the world today is the book found in our libraries. Although 
progress has been made in America's system of libraries it still 
falls short of what is required if we are to maintain the standards that 
are needed for an informed America. The problem grows in intensity 
each year as man's knowledge, and his capacity to translate such knowledge 
to the written word, continue to expand. The inadequacy of our 
library system will become critical unless we act vigorously to correct 
this condition. There are, for example, approximately 25,000,000 
people in this country with no public library service and about 50,000,000 
with inadequate service. In college libraries, 57 per cent of the 
total number of books are owned by 124 of 1,509 institutions surveyed 
last year by the U&S& Office of Education. And over 66 per 
cent of the elementary schools with 150 or more pupils do not have any 
library at all. ##

IN every aspect of service- to the public, 
to children in schools, to colleges and universities- the library 
of today is failing to render vitally needed services. Only public 
understanding and support can provide that service.   This is 
one of the main reasons for National Library Week, April 16-22, and 
for its theme: "For a richer, fuller life, read"! 

#ASSEMBLY SESSION BROUGHT MUCH GOOD#

The General Assembly, which 
adjourns today, has performed in an atmosphere of crisis and struggle 
from the day it convened. It was faced immediately with a showdown 
on the schools, an issue which was met squarely in conjunction with the 
governor with a decision not to risk abandoning public education.

There followed the historic appropriations and budget fight, in 
which the General Assembly decided to tackle executive powers. The 
final decision went to the executive but a way has been opened for strengthening 
budgeting procedures and to provide legislators information 
they need.   Long-range planning of programs and ways to finance 
them have become musts if the state in the next few years is to avoid 
crisis-to-crisis government. This session, for instance, may have 
insured 
a financial crisis two years from now.   In all the turmoil, 
some good legislation was passed. Some other good bills were lost 
in the shuffle and await future action. Certainly all can applaud passage 
of an auto title law, the school bills, the increase in teacher 
pensions, the ban on drag racing, acceptance by the state of responsibility 
for maintenance of state roads in municipalities at the same rate 
as outside city limits, repeal of the college age limit law and the 
road maintenance bond issue.   No action has been taken, however, 
on such major problems as ending the fee system, penal reform, modification 
of the county unit system and in outright banning of fireworks 
sales. Only a token start was made in attacking the tax reappraisal 
question and its companion issue of attracting industry to the state.

The legislature expended most of its time on the schools and appropriations 
questions. Fortunately it spared us from the usual spate 
of silly resolutions which in the past have made Georgia look like 
anything but "the empire state of the South".   We congratulate 
the entire membership on its record of good legislation. In the 
interim between now and next year, we trust the House and Senate will 
put their minds to studying Georgia's very real economic, fiscal 
and social problems and come up with answers without all the political 
heroics. @ 

#LEAGUE REGULARLY STANDS ON THE SIDE OF RIGHT#

The 
League of Women Voters, 40 now and admitting it proudly, is inviting 
financial contributions in the windup of its fund drive. It's a 
good use of money.   These women whose organization grew out of 
the old suffrage movement are dedicated to Thomas Jefferson's dictum 
that one must cherish the people's spirit but "Keep alive their 
attention".   "If once they become inattentive to the public 
affairs", Jefferson said, "you and I, and Congress and assemblies, 
judges and governors, shall all become wolves".   Newspapermen 
and politicians especially are aware of the penetrating attention 
and expert analysis the league gives to public affairs. The league 
workers search out the pros and cons of the most complex issues and 
make them available to the public. The harder the choice, the more willing 
the league is to wade in. And the league takes a stand, with great 
regularity, on the side of right. @ 

#LOOK TO COOSA VALLEY FOR 
INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS#

Cities and counties interested in industrial 
development would do well in the months ahead to keep their eyes peeled 
toward the 13 northwest 
Georgia counties that are members of the Coosa 
Valley Area Planning and Development Commission.   Coupling 
its own budget of $83,750 with a $30,000 state grant authorized by 
Gov& Vandiver, the group expects to sign a contract in March with 
Georgia Tech&. Then a full-time planning office will be established 
in Rome to work with a five-member Georgia Tech research staff 
for development of an area planning and industrial development program.

The undertaking has abundant promise. It recognizes the fact 
that what helps one county helps its neighbors and that by banding 
together in an area-wide effort better results can be accomplished than 
through the go-it-alone approach. @ 

#RUSK IDEA STRENGTHENS UNITED 
STATES DEFENSE#

The Rusk belief in balanced defense, replacing 
the 
Dulles theory of massive retaliation, removes a grave danger that 
has existed.   The danger lay not in believing that our own ~A-bombs 
would deter Russia's use of hers; that theory was and is 
sound. The danger lay in the American delusion that nuclear deterrence 
was enough.   By limiting American strength too much to nuclear 
strength, this country limited its ability to fight any kind of war 
besides a nuclear war. This strategy heightened the possibility that 
we would have a nuclear war.   It also weakened our diplomatic 
stance, because Russia could easily guess we did not desire a nuclear 
war except in the ultimate extremity.   This left the Soviets 
plenty of leeway to start low-grade brushfire aggressions with considerable 
impunity.   By maintaining the nuclear deterrent, but gearing 
American military forces to fight conventional wars too, Secretary 
of State Rusk junks bluff and nuclear brinkmanship and builds more 
muscle and greater safety into our military position. @ 

#DEKALB BUDGET 
SHOWS COUNTY IS ON BEAM#

DeKalb's budget for 1961 is a record 
one and carries with it the promise of no tax increase to make it balance.

It includes a raise in the county minimum wage, creation 
of several new jobs at the executive level, financing of beefed-up 
industrial development efforts, and increased expenditures for essential 
services such as health and welfare, fire protection, sanitation and 
road maintenance.   That such expansion can be obtained without 
a raise in taxes is due to growth of the tax digest and sound fiscal 
planning on the part of the board of commissioners, headed by Chairman 
Charles O& Emmerich who is demonstrating that the public trust 
he was given was well placed, and other county officials. @ 

#SOMEWHERE, 
SOMEBODY IS BOUND TO LOVE US#

G& Mennen Williams is learning 
the difficulties of diplomacy rapidly. Touring Africa, the new 
U&S& assistant secretary of state observed "Africa should be 
for the Africans" and the British promptly denounced him. Then he 
arrived in Zanzibar and found Africans carrying signs saying "American 
imperialists, go home". Chin up, Soapy. @ 

#POWER COMPANY 
BACKS CONFIDENCE WITH DOLLARS#

Confidence in the state's economic 
future is reflected in the Georgia Power Company's record construction 
budget for this year.   The firm does a large amount of 
research and its forecasts have meaning. It is good to know that Georgia 
will continue to have sufficient electrical power not only to meet 
the demands of normal growth but to encourage a more rapid rate of 
industrialization.

Georgia's mental health program received a badly needed boost 
from the General Assembly in the form of a $1,750,000 budget increase 
for the Milledgeville State Hospital.   Actually it amounts 
to $1,250,000 above what the institution already is receiving, considering 
the additional half-million dollars Gov& Vandiver allocated 
last year from the state surplus.   Either way it sounds like 
a sizable hunk of money and is. But exactly how far it will go toward 
improving conditions is another question because there is so much that 
needs doing.   The practice of charging employes for meals whether 
they eat at the hospital or not should be abolished. The work week 
of attendants who are on duty 65 hours and more per week should be 
reduced.   More attendants, nurses and doctors should be hired. 
Patients deserve more attention than they are getting.   Even with 
the increase in funds for the next fiscal year, Georgia will be spending 
only around $3.15 per day per patient. The national average is 
more than $4 and that figure is considered by experts in the mental 
health field to be too low. Kansas, regarded as tops in the nation in 
its treatment of the mentally ill, spends $9 per day per patient.

Georgia has made some reforms, true. The intensive treatment program 
is working well. But in so many other areas we still are dragging.

Considering what is being done compared to what needs to be 
done, it behooves the hospital management to do some mighty careful planning 
toward making the best possible use of the increase granted. The 
boost is helpful but inadequate.- @ 

#THE END OF TRUJILLO#

Assassination, even of a tyrant, is repulsive 
to men of good conscience. Rafael Trujillo, the often-blood thirsty 
dictator of the Dominican Republic for 31 years, perhaps deserved 
his fate in an even-handed appraisal of history. But whether the murder 
of El Benefactor in Ciudad Trujillo means freedom for the people 
of the Caribbean fiefdom is a question that cannot now be answered.

Trujillo knew a great deal about assassination. The responsibility 
for scores of deaths, including the abduction and murder of Jesus 
Maria Galindez, a professor at Columbia University in New York, 
has been laid at his door. He had been involved in countless schemes 
to do away with democratic leaders in neighboring countries such 
as President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela. It was a sort of poetic 
justice that at the time of his own demise a new plot to overthrow 
the Venezuelan government, reportedly involving the use of Dominican 
arms by former Venezuelan Dictator Marcos Perez Jimenez, has 
been uncovered and quashed.   The recent history of the Dominican 
Republic is an almost classical study of the way in which even a professedly 
benevolent dictatorship tends to become oppressive. Unquestionably 
Trujillo did some good things for his country: he improved 
public facilities such as roads and sanitation, attracted industry and 
investment and raised the standard of living notably. But the price 
was the silence of the grave for all criticism or opposition. 
El Benefactor's vanity grew with his personal wealth. The jails were 
filled to overflowing with political prisoners who had incurred his 
displeasure. He maintained amply financed lobbies in the United States 
and elsewhere which sycophantically chanted his praise, and his 
influence extended even to Congress.   Until the last year or so 
the profession of friendship with the United States had been an article 
of faith with Trujillo, and altogether too often this profession 
was accepted here as evidence of his good character. Tardily the Government 
here 
came to understand how this country's own reputation was 
tarnished by the association with repression. Last year, after Trujillo 
had been cited for numerous aggressions in the Caribbean, the 
United States and many other members of the Organization of American 
States broke diplomatic relations with him.   Thereupon followed 
a demonstration that tyranny knows no ideological confines. Trujillo's 
dictatorship had been along conservative, right-wing lines. But 
after the censure he and his propaganda started mouthing Communist 
slogans. There was considerable evidence of a tacit rapprochement with 
Castro in Cuba, previously a <bete noire> to Trujillo- thus 
illustrating the way in which totalitarianism of the right and left coalesces.

What comes after Trujillo is now the puzzle. The 
Dominican people have known no democratic institutions and precious little 
freedom for a generation, and all alternative leadership has been 
suppressed. Perhaps the army will be able to maintain stability, but 
the vacuum of free institutions creates a great danger. The Dominican 
Republic could turn toward Communist-type authoritarianism as easily 
as toward Western freedom. Such a twist would be a tragedy for 
the Dominican people, who deserve to breathe without fear. For that 
reason any democratic reform and effort to bring genuine representative 
government to the Dominican Republic will need the greatest sympathy 
and help. 

#START ON RAPID TRANSIT#

High-speed buses on the George 
Washington Memorial Parkway, operating between downtown Washington 
and Cabin John, Glen Echo and Brookmont, would constitute 
an 
alluring sample of what the new National Capital Transportation Agency 
can do for this city. In presenting plans for such express buses 
before the Montgomery County Council, the administrator of the ~NCTA, 
C& Darwin Stolzenbach, was frankly seeking support for 
the projects his agency will soon be launching. Such support should 
not be difficult to come by if all the plans to be presented by the ~NCTA 
are as attractive as this outline of express buses coming into 
the downtown area.   Because the buses would not stop on the 
parkway, land for bus stations and for parking areas nearby will be needed. 
The ~NCTA is well advised to seek funds for this purpose 
from the present session of Congress. 

#MUST BERLIN REMAIN DIVIDED?#

The inference has been too 
widely 
accepted that because the Communists have succeeded in building barricades 
across Berlin the free world must acquiesce in dismemberment of 
that living city.   So far as the record is concerned, the Western 
powers have not acquiesced and should not do so.   Though Walter 
Ulbricht, by grace of Soviet tanks, may be head man in East 
Germany, that does not give him any right to usurp the government of 
East Berlin or to absorb that semi-city into the Soviet zone.

The wartime protocol of September 12, 1944, designated a special "Greater 
Berlin" area, comprising the entire city, to be under joint 
occupation. It was not a part of any one of the three (later four) 
zones for occupation by Soviet, American, British, and French troops 
respectively. After the Berlin blockade and airlift, the Council 
of Foreign Ministers in 1949 declared a purpose "to mitigate the 
effects of the present administrative division of Germany and of Berlin".

For some time the Communists honored the distinction 
between the Soviet zone of Germany and the Soviet sector of Berlin 
by promulgating separately the laws for the two areas. Then they moved 
offices of the East German puppet government into East Berlin 
and began illegally to treat it as the capital of East Germany.

That this and the closing of the East Berlin-West Berlin border 
have not 
been accepted by the Western governments appears in notes which 
Britain, 
France, and the United States sent to Moscow after the latter's 
gratuitous protest over a visit of Chancellor Adenauer and other 
West German officials to West Berlin. The Chancellor had as 
much business there as Ulbricht had in East Berlin- and was certainly 
less provocative than the juvenile sound-truck taunts of Gerhard 
Eisler.   The British and other replies to that Moscow note 
pointed out efforts of the Communist authorities "to integrate East 
Berlin into East Germany by isolating it from the outside and attempting 
to make it the capital of East Germany". They insisted on 
the "fundamental fact" that "the whole of Berlin has a quadripartite 
status".   This is far from acknowledging or recognizing 
those efforts as an accomplished fact. There remains, of course, the 
question of what the West can do beyond diplomatic protest to prevent 
the illegal efforts from becoming accomplished facts.   One ground 
of action certainly exists when fusillades of stray shots go over 
into West Berlin as Communist "vopos" try to gun down fleeing 
unarmed residents. Another remained when an American Army car was 
recovered but with a broken glass. The glass may seem trivial but Communist 
official hooliganism feeds on such incidents unless they are redressed.

Remembering the step-by-step fate of Danzig and the 
West German misgivings about "salami" tactics, it is to be hoped 
that 
the dispatch of General Clay to West Berlin as President Kennedy's 
representative will mark a stiffening of response not only to future 
indignities and aggressions but also to some that have passed. 

#PRAIRIE 
NATIONAL PARK#

Thousands of buffalo ("bison" they will 
never be to the man on the street) grazing like a mobile brown throw-rug 
upon the rolling, dusty-green grassland. A horizon even and seamless, 
binding the vast sun-bleached dome of sky to earth.   That 
picture of the American prairie is as indelibly fixed in the memory of 
those who have studied the conquest of the American continent as any 
later cinema image of the West made in live-oak canyons near Hollywood. 
For it was the millions of buffalo and prairie chicken and the 
endless seas of grass that symbolized for a whole generation of Americans 
the abundant supply that was to take many of them westward when the 
Ohio and Mississippi valleys began to fill.   The National 
Park Service now proposes to preserve an area in Pottawatomie County, 
northeast Kansas, as a "Prairie National Park". There the 
buffalo would roam, to be seen as a tapestry, not as moth-eaten zoo 
specimens. Wooded stream valleys in the folds of earth would be saved. 
Grasslands would extend, unfenced, unplowed, unbroken by silo or barn- 
as the first settlers saw them.   The Park Service makes 
an impressive ecological and statistical case for creating this new 
park. 
American history should clinch the case when Congress is asked to 
approve. 

#WHISKY ON THE AIR#

A Philadelphia distiller is currently 
breaching the customary prohibition against hard-liquor advertising 
on ~TV and radio. Starting with small stations not members of 
the National Association of Broadcasters, the firm apparently is seeking 
to break down the anti-liquor barriers in major-market stations.

Probably the best answer to this kind of entering wedge is congressional 
action requiring the Federal Communications Commission 
to ban such advertising through its licensing power.   The National 
Association of Broadcasters code specifically bars hard-liquor 
commercials. Past polls of public opinion show popular favor for this 
policy. Even the Distilled Spirits Institute has long had a specific 
prohibition.   Why, then, with these voluntary barricades and 
some state laws barring liquor ads, is it necessary to seek congressional 
action? Simply because the subverting action of firms that are 
not members of the Distilled Spirits Institute and of radio and ~TV 
stations that are not members of the ~NAB tends to spread.

Soon some members of the two industry groups doubtless will want 
to amend their codes on grounds that otherwise they will suffer unfairly 
from the efforts of non-code competitors.   Although the 
false glamour surrounding bourbon or other whisky commercials is possibly 
no more fatuous than the pseudo-sophistication with which ~TV 
soft-drinks are downed or toothpaste applied, there is a sad difference 
between enticing a viewer into sipping Oopsie-Cola and gulling him 
into downing bourbon.   A law is needed. 

#NEW YORK: DEMOCRATS' 
CHOICE#

Registered Democrats in New York City this year have 
the opportunity to elect their party's candidates for Mayor and 
other municipal posts and the men who will run their party organization.

In the central contest, that for Mayor, they may have found 
some pertinent points in what each faction has said about the other.

Mayor Robert F& Wagner must, as his opponents demand, assume 
responsibility for his performance in office. While all citizens 
share in blame for lax municipal ethics the Wagner regime has seen serious 
problems in the schools, law enforcement and fiscal policies. The 
Mayor is finding it awkward to campaign against his own record.

State Controller Arthur Levitt, on the other hand, cannot effectively 
deny that he has chosen to be the candidate of those party leaders 
who as a rule have shown livelier interest in political power than 
in the city's welfare. They, too, have links with the city's 
ills.   Both men are known to be honest and public-spirited. Mayor 
Wagner's shortcomings have perhaps been more mercilessly exposed 
than those of Mr& Levitt who left an impression of quiet competence 
in his more protected state post.   As Mayor, Mr& Levitt 
might turn out to be more independent than some of his leading supporters 
would like. His election, on the other hand, would unquestionably 
strengthen the "regulars".   Mr& Wagner might or might 
not be a "new" Mayor in this third term, now that he is free of 
the pressure of those party leaders whom he calls "bosses". These 
are, of course, the same people whose support he has only now rejected 
to seek the independent vote.   But his reelection would strengthen 
the liberal Democrats and the labor unions who back him.

If this choice is less exciting than New York Democrats may wish, 
it nevertheless must be made. The vote still gives citizens a voice 
in the operation of their government and their party. 

#LITTLE WAR, BIG TEST#

Both Mr& ~K's have so far continued 
to speak softly and carry big sticks over Laos.   President 
Kennedy, already two quiet demands down, still refused Thursday to 
be drawn into delivering a public ultimatum to Moscow. But at the same 
time he moved his helicopter-borne marines to within an hour of the 
fighting. And Secretary Rusk, en route to Bangkok, doubtless is 
trying to make emergency arrangements for the possible entry of Australian 
or Thai ~SEATO forces.   For Mr& Kennedy, speaking 
softly and carrying a sizable stick is making the best of a bad 
situation. The new President is in no position to start out his dealings 
with Moscow by issuing callable bluffs. He must show at the outset 
that he means exactly what he says.   In this case he has put 
the alternatives clearly to Mr& Khrushchev for the third time. At 
his press conference Mr& Kennedy said, "All we want in Laos 
is peace not war **h a truly neutral government not a cold war pawn". 
At the scene he has just as clearly shown his military strength in 
unprovocative but ready position.   Since Laos is of no more purely 
military value to Moscow itself than it is to Washington, this 
approach might be expected to head off Mr& Khrushchev for the moment. 
But because of the peculiar nature of the military situation in 
Laos, the Soviet leader must be tempted to let things ride- a course 
that would appear to cost him little on the spot, but would bog Washington 
in a tactical mess.   As wars go, Laos is an extremely 
little one. Casualties have been running about a dozen men a day. The 
hard core of the pro-Communist rebel force numbers only some 2,000 
tough Viet Minh guerrilla fighters. But for the United States and 
its ~SEATO allies to attempt to shore up a less tough, less combat-tested 
government army in monsoon-shrouded, road-shy, guerrilla-th'-wisp 
terrain is a risk not savored by Pentagon planners. 
But if anything can bring home to Mr& Khrushchev the idea that he 
will not really get much enjoyment from watching this 
Braddock-against-the-Indians 
contest, it will probably be the fact that ~SEATO 
forces are ready to attempt it- plus the fact that Moscow has something 
to lose from closing off disarmament and other bigger negotiations 
with Washington.   Fortunately both the Republicans and America's 
chief Western allies now are joined behind the neutral Laos 
aim of the President. Actually it would be more accurate to say that 
the leader of the alliance now has swung fully behind the British 
policy of seeking to achieve a neutral Laos via the international bargaining 
table.   It is ironic that Washington is having to struggle 
so for a concept that for six years it bypassed as unreasonable. 
The State Department tacitly rejected the neutral Laos idea after 
the Geneva conference of 1954, and last year Washington backed the 
rightist coup that ousted neutral Premier Souvanna Phouma.   But 
since last fall the United States has been moving toward a pro-neutralist 
position and now is ready to back the British plan for a cease-fire 
patrolled by outside observers and followed by a conference of 
interested powers.   The road to a guaranteed-neutral, coup-proof 
Laos is today almost as difficult as warfare on that nation's terrain. 
But for the safety of Southeast Asia, and for the sake of the 
Laotian people- who would not be well-ruled by either militant minority 
now engaged in the fighting- this last big effort to seal that 
country from the cold war had to be made. The world awaits Mr& Khrushchev's 
choice of alternatives. 

#A VOTE FOR EDUCATIONAL ~TV# 

The Senate's overwhelming (64-13) vote to support locally controlled 
educational ~TV efforts should be emulated in the lower 
house.   Twice previously the Senate has approved measures backing 
~ETV and the House has let them die. But this year prospects 
may be better. The House communications subcommittee is expected to 
report out a good bill calling for the states to match federal funds.

This year's Senate measure would provide each state and the 
District of Columbia with $1,000,000 to be used in support of private, 
state, or municipal ~ETV efforts. The funds would be used 
for equipment, not for land, buildings, or operation.   The relatively 
few communities that have educational stations have found them 
of considerable value. But, lacking money from commercial sponsors, the 
stations have had 
difficulties meeting expenses or improving their service. 
Other communities- the ones to be aided most by the Senate bill- 
have had difficulty starting such stations because of the high initial 
cost of equipment. 

#A GOOD MAN DEPARTS GOODBY, MR& SAM#

Sam Rayburn was a good man, 
a good American, and, third, a good Democrat.   He was all 
of these rolled into one sturdy figure; Mr& Speaker, Mr& Sam, 
and Mr& Democrat, at one and the same time.   The House was 
his habitat and there he flourished, first as a young representative, 
then as a forceful committee chairman, and finally in the post for which 
he seemed intended from birth, Speaker of the House, and second 
most powerful man in Washington.   Mr& Rayburn was not an easy 
man to classify or to label. He was no flaming liberal, yet the New 
Deal, the Fair Deal and the New Frontier needed him. He was 
not a rear-looking conservative, yet partisans of that persuasion will 
miss him as much as any.   Two of the vital qualities demanded 
of a politician by other politicians are that he always keep a confidence 
and that he keep his word. Sam Rayburn took unnumbered secrets with 
him to the grave, for he was never loquacious, and his word, once 
given, was not subject to retraction. It might be added that as he kept 
his word so he expected that others keep theirs.   The demonstration 
of his power was never flamboyant or theatrical. His leadership 
was not for audiences. A growl, a nod, was usually enough. When it 
was not, one of the great dramas of Washington would be presented. 
He would rise in the well of the House, his chin upon his chest, his 
hands gripping the side of a desk, and the political and legislative 
chatter would subside into silence.   He spoke briefly, sensibly, 
to the point and without oratorical flourishes He made good, plain 
American common sense and the House usually recognized it and acted 
upon it.   These public efforts were rare because Mr& Rayburn 
normally did his counseling, persuading and educating long before 
an issue reached its test on the House floor. He expected Democrats 
to do their duty when it had been patiently pointed out to them. With 
his long service he had a long memory, an excellent thing in a political 
leader.   {He was, of course, in the House for a very long 
time. There are only two men remaining in Congress who, with Rayburn, 
voted for the declaration of war against Germany in 1917. To 
almost two generations of Americans it must have seemed as though the 
existence of Mr& Sam coincided with that of the House}. 
And it was the House he loved. To be presiding officer of it was the 
end of his desire and ambition. The Senate to him was not the "upper 
body" and he corrected those who said he served "under" the 
president. He served "with" him.   Sound the roll of those 
with whom he served and who preceded him in death. Woodrow Wilson, 
with whom he began his years in Washington, Warren G& Harding, 
Calvin Coolidge, ~FDR, with whom he managed a social revolution. 
And those still with us, Herbert C& Hoover, Harry S& Truman, 
Dwight D& Eisenhower and John F& Kennedy.   He was 
a fighter for those of his own party. Mr& Truman has only to recall 
the "hopeless" campaign of 1948 to remember what a loyal partisan 
he was and the first experience of Mr& Kennedy with Congress would 
have been sadder than it was had not Mr& Sam been there. As it 
was, his absence because of his final illness was a blow to the administration.

With Republican presidents, he fought fair. He was 
his own man, not an automatic obstructionist. He kept his attacks 
on Republicanism for partisan campaigns, but that is part of the game 
he 
was born to play.   Under any name- Mr& Speaker, Mr& 
Democrat, Mr& Sam- he was a good man. #~UN OFF THE CONGO TRACK# 

Thirteen Italian airmen who went to the Congo to serve the 
cause of peace under the United Nations banner have instead met violent 
death at the hands of Congolese troops supposedly their friends.

In 18 months, no more grisly incident has been reported from that 
jungle. Simply out of bloodlust, their murderers dismembered the 
bodies and tossed the remains into the river. The excuse was offered 
for them that they had mistaken the Italians for Belgian mercenaries. 
In other words, atrocities by savages wearing the uniform of the central 
government might be condoned, had the victims been serving the cause 
of dissident Katanga.   Does this suggest that the Congo 
is fit for nationhood or that ~UN is making any progress whatever 
toward its goal of so making it? To the contrary, through the past 
six 
weeks violence has been piled upon violence. Mass rapes, troop mutinies, 
uncontrolled looting and pillage and reckless military adventures, 
given no sanction by any political authority, have become almost 
daily occurrences. Yet this basic condition of outlawry and anarchy is 
not the work of Katanga. It happens in the territory of the Leopoldville 
government, which is itself a fiction, demonstrably incapable 
of governing, and commanding only such limited credit abroad as ~UN 
support gives it.   The main question raised by the incident is 
how much longer will ~UN bury its head in the sand on the Congo 
problem instead of facing the bitter fact that it has no solution in 
present terms? The probable answer is that it will do so just as long 
as Russia can exercise a veto in favor of chaos and until young African 
nations wake up to the truth that out of false pride they are visiting 
ruin on Central Africa.   Right now, they are pushing 
a resolution which would have ~UN use its forces to invade and subjugate 
Katanga. That notion is fantastically wrong-headed from several 
points of view. The ~UN army is too weak, too demoralized for 
the task. Further, it has its work cut out stopping anarchy where it 
is now garrisoned. Last, it makes no sense to deliver Katanga, the one 
reasonably solid territory, into the existing chaos.   The Congo 
should have been mandated, because it was not ready for independence. 
The idea was not even suggested because political expediency prevailed 
over wisdom. It is perhaps too late now to talk of mandate because 
it is inconsistent with what is termed political realism. But if 
any realism and feeling for truth remain in the General Assembly, it 
is time for men of courage to measure the magnitude of the failure and 
urge some new approach. Otherwise, ~UN will march blindly on to 
certain defeat. 

#FEATHERBED REVERSAL#

A recent editorial discussing 
a labor-management agreement reached between the Southern Pacific 
Co& and the Order of Railroad Telegraphers has been criticized 
on the grounds that it was not based on complete information. 
The editorial was based on a news association dispatch which said that 
the telegraphers had secured an agreement whereby they were guaranteed 
40 hours' pay per week whether they worked or not and that a reduction 
in their number was limited to 2 per cent per year. Our comment 
was that this was "featherbedding" in its ultimate form and that 
sympathy for the railroad was misplaced since it had entered into such 
an agreement. The statement was also made that undoubtedly the railroad 
had received some compensating benefit from the telegraphers, but 
that it was difficult to imagine what could balance a job for life.

Additional information supplied to us discloses that the railroad 
gained a stabilized supply of telegraphers of which it was in need. 
Also, normal personal attrition would make the job reduction provision 
more or less academic.   The situation with regard to the Southern 
Pacific was therefore a special one and not necessarily applicable 
to other situations in other industries. The solution reached in 
the agreement was more acceptable to the railroad than that originally 
included in a series of union demands. 

#MEDITATIONS FROM A FALLOUT SHELTER#

Time was when the house of delegates 
of the American Bar association leaned to the common sense 
side. But the internationalists have taken over the governing body of 
the bar, and when the lads met in St& Louis, it was not to grumble 
about the humidity but to vote unanimously that the United Nations 
was scarcely less than wonderful, despite an imperfection here and 
there.   It was, the brief writers decided, "man's best hope 
for a peaceful and law abiding world". Peace, it's wonderful, and 
"world law", it's wonderful, too, and shouldn't we get an international 
covenant extending it into space, before the Russians put 
some claim jumper on the moon?   Meanwhile, in Moscow, Khrushchev 
was adding his bit to the march of world law by promising to build 
a bomb with a wallop equal to 100 million tons of ~TNT, to knock 
sense into the heads of those backward oafs who can't see the justice 
of surrendering West Berlin to communism.   A nuclear pacifier 
of these dimensions- roughly some six and a half times bigger 
than anything the United States has triggered experimentally- would 
certainly produce a bigger bang, and, just for kicks, Khrushchev might 
use it to propel the seminar of the house of delegates from St& 
Louis to the moon, where there wouldn't even be any beer to drink.

While he was at it, the philosopher of the Kremlin contributed 
an additional assist to the rule of reason by bellowing at those in 
the west who can't appreciate coexistence thru suicide.   "Fools", 
he bayed, "what do you think you are doing"?   The 
only response we can think of is the humble one that at least we aren't 
playing the marimba with our shoes in the United Nations, but 
perhaps the heavy domes in the house of delegates can improve on this 
feeble effort.   Another evidence of the spreading rule of reason 
was provided from Mexico City with the daily hijacking of an American 
plane by a demented Algerian with a gun. The craft made the familiar 
unwelcome flight to Havana, where, for some unknown reason, Castro 
rushed to the airport to express mortification to the Colombian 
foreign minister, a passenger, who is not an admirer of old Ten O'Clock 
Shadow. The plane was sent back to the United States, for 
a change, but Castro kept the crazy gunman, who will prove a suitable 
recruit to the revolution.   Less respect for the legal 
conventions was displayed by Castro's right hand man, Che Guevara, 
who edified the Inter-American Economic and Social council meeting 
in Montevideo by reading two secret American documents purloined 
from the United States embassy at Caracas, Venezuela. The contents 
were highly embarrassing to American spokesmen, who were on hand 
to promise Latin Americans a 20 billion dollar foreign aid millennium.

Perhaps the moralities of world law are not advanced by stealing 
American diplomatic papers and planes, but the Kennedy administration 
can always file a demurrer to the effect that, but for its own 
incompetence in protecting American interests, these things would 
not happen. The same can be said about the half-hearted Cuban invasion 
mounted by the administration last April, which, we trust, is not 
symptomatic of the methods to be invoked in holding off the felonious 
Khrushchev.   Pass the iron rations, please, and light another 
candle, for it's getting dark down here and we're minded to read 
a bit of world law just to pass the time away. 

#THE CUSTOMER LOSES 
AGAIN#

The board of suspension of the Interstate Commerce commission 
has ordered a group of railroads not to reduce their freight rates 
on grain, as they had planned to do this month.   The request for 
lower rates originated with the Southern railway, which has spent 
a good deal of time and money developing a 100-ton hopper car with which 
it says it can move grain at about half what it costs in the conventional, 
smaller car. By reducing rates as much as 60 per cent, it and 
its 
associated railroads hope to win back some of the business they have 
lost to truckers and barge lines.   The board's action shows 
what free enterprise is up against in our complex maze of regulatory laws. 

#A SHOCK WAVE FROM AFRICA#

WORD OF Dag Hammarskjold's death 
in an African plane crash has sent a shockwave around the globe. 
As head of the United Nations he was the symbol of world peace, and 
his tragic end came at a moment when peace hangs precariously. It was 
on the eve of a momentous U&N& session to come to grips with cold 
war issues. His firm hand will be desperately missed.   Mr& 
Hammarskjold was in Africa on a mission of peace. He had sought 
talks with Moise Tshombe, the secessionist president of Congo's Katanga 
province where recent fighting had been bloody. He earnestly 
urged a cease-fire.   The story of the fatal crash is not fully 
known. The U&N&-chartered plane which was flying from the conference 
city of Ndola in Northern Rhodesia had been riddled with machinegun 
bullets last weekend and was newly repaired. Whether this, or 
overt action, was the cause of the crash must be promptly determined.

The death of Mr& Hammarskjold removes the United Nations' 
most controversial leader. He was controversial because he was uncompromising 
for peace and freedom with justice. He courageously defended 
the rights of small nations, and he stood his ground against the 
savage attacks of the Communist bloc.   The Congo, in whose cause 
he died, was the scene of one of his greatest triumphs. His policies 
had resolved the conflicts that threatened to ignite the cold war 
and workable solutions were beginning to take shape. When the recent 
Katangan outbreaks imperiled these solutions Mr& Hammarskjold, despite 
the danger, flew to exert a calming influence. He gave his life 
for his beliefs.   The U&N& session scheduled for today 
will meet under the cloud of his passing. It is a crucial session with 
the world on the edge of momentous developments.   If the manner 
of his passing moves the nations to act in the spirit of his dedication 
the sore issues that plague the world can yet be resolved with reason 
and justice. That is the hope of mankind. 

#MONUMENT TO TOGETHERNESS# 

REACHING AGREEMENT on projects of value to the whole community 
has long been one of Greater Miami's hardest tasks. Too 
many have bogged down in bickering. Even when public bodies arrived at 
a consensus, at least one dissenting vote has been usual.   So 
we note approvingly a fresh sample of unanimity. All nine members of 
the Inter-American Center Authority voted for Goodbody + Company's 
proposal to finance the long-awaited trade and cultural center.

The widely known financial firm has 60 days to spell out the terms 
of its contract. If the indenture is accepted, the authority will 
proceed to validate a bond issue repayable from revenue. Then Goodbody 
will hand over a minimum of $15.5 million for developing the spacious 
Graves Tract to house the center.   The next step awaits 
approval today by the Metro commissioners as the members of the Dade 
County Port Authority. They allotted $500,000 three years ago to 
support Interama until its own financing could be arranged. Less than 
half the sum has been spent, since the Interama board pinched pennies 
during that period of painstaking negotiations. The balance is being 
budgeted for the coming year.   Unanimity on Interama is not 
surprising. It is one of the rare public ventures here on which nearly 
everyone is agreed. The City of Miami recently yielded a prior claim 
of $8.5 million on the Graves Tract to clear the way for the project. 
County officials have cooperated consistently. So have the people's 
elected spokesmen at the state and federal levels.   Interama, 
as it rises, will be a living monument to Greater Miami's 
ability 
to get together on worthwhile enterprises. 

#A SHORT REPORT AND 
A GOOD ONE#

PROGRESS, or lack of it, toward civil rights in 
the 50 states is reported in an impressive 689-page compilation issued 
last week by the United States Commission on Civil Rights.

Much happened in this field during the past 12 months. Each state 
advisory committee documented its own activity. Some accounts are quite 
lengthy but Florida's is the shortest of all, requiring only four 
paragraphs.   "The established pattern of relative calm in the 
field of race relations has continued in all areas", reported this 
group headed by Harold Colee of Jacksonville and including two South 
Floridians, William D& Singer and John B& Turner of Miami.

"No complaints or charges have been filed during the past 
year, either verbally or written, from any individual or group.

"The committee continues to feel that Florida has progressed 
in a sound and equitable program at both the state and local levels in 
its efforts to review and assess transition problems as they arise from 
time to time in the entire spectrum of civil rights".   Problems 
have arisen in this sensitive field but have been handled in most 
cases with understanding and restraint. The progress reported by the 
advisory committee is real. While some think we move too fast and others 
too slowly, Florida's record is a good one and stands out among 
the 50. 

#WEST GERMANY REMAINS WESTERN#

WEST GERMANY will 
face the crucial tests that lie ahead, on Berlin and unification, with 
a coalition government. This is the key fact emerging from Sunday's 
national election.   Chancellor Adenauer's Christian Democratic 
Party slipped only a little in the voting but it was enough 
to lose the absolute Bundestag majority it has enjoyed since 1957. In 
order to form a new government it must deal with one of the two rival 
parties which gained strength. Inevitably this means some compromise.

The aging chancellor in all likelihood will be retired. Both 
Willy Brandt's Social Democrats, who gained 22 seats in the 
new parliament, and the Free Democrats, who picked up 23, will insist 
on that before they enter the government.   Moon-faced Ludwig 
Erhart, the economic expert, probably will ascend to the leadership 
long denied him.   If he becomes chancellor, Dr& Erhart would 
make few changes. The wizard who fashioned West Germany's astonishing 
industrial rebirth is the soul of free enterprise. He is dedicated 
to building the nation's strength and, as are all West Germans, 
to a free Berlin and to reunion with captive East Germany.

What is in doubt as the free Germans and their allies consider the 
voting trends is the nature of the coalition that will result. 
If the party of Adenauer and Erhart, with 45 per cent of the vote, 
approaches the party of Willy Brandt, which won 36 per cent, the result 
would be a stiffening of the old resolve. West Berlin's Mayor 
Brandt vigorously demanded a firmer stand on the dismemberment of his 
city and won votes by it.   The Free Democrats (12 per cent 
of the vote) believe a nuclear war can be avoided by negotiating with 
the Soviet Union, and more dealings with the Communist bloc.

The question left by the election is whether West Germany veers slightly 
toward more firmness or more flexibility. It could go either 
way, since the gains for both points of view were about the same.

Regardless of the decision two facts are clear. West Germany, with 
its industrial and military might, reaffirmed its democracy and remains 
firm with the free nations. And the career of Konrad Adenauer, 
who upheld Germany's tradition of rock-like leaders which 
Bismarck 
began, draws near the end. 

#BETTER ASK BEFORE JOINING#

AMERICANS 
are a nation of joiners, a quality which our friends find endearing 
and sometimes amusing. But it can be dangerous if the joiner doesn't 
want to make a spectacle of himself.   For instance, so-called 
"conservative" organizations, some of them secret, are sprouting 
in the garden of joining where "liberal" organizations once took 
root.   One specific example is a secret "fraternity" which 
will "coordinate anti-Communist efforts". The principle is commendable 
but we suspect that in the practice somebody is going to get 
gulled.   According to The Chicago Tribune News Service, 
State Atty& Gen& Stanley Mosk of California has devised a series 
of questions which the joiner might well ask about any organization 
seeking his money and his name: _1._ Does it assail schools 
and churches with blanket accusations? _2._ Does it attack other 
traditional American institutions with unsupportable and wild charges? 

_3._ Does it put the label of un-American or subversive on 
everyone with whom it disagrees politically? _4._ Does it attempt 
to rewrite modern history by blaming American statesmen for wars, 
communism, depression, and other troubles of the world? _5._ Does 
it employ crude pressure tactics with such means as anonymous telephone 
calls and letter writing campaigns? _6._ Do its spokesmen 
seem more interested in the amount of money they collect than in the 
principles they purport to advocate?   In some instances a seventh 
question can be added: _7._ Does the organization show an 
affinity for a foreign government, political party or personality in opposition 
or preference to the American system?   If the would-be 
joiner asks these questions he is not likely to be duped by extremists 
who are seeking to capitalize on the confusions and the patriotic 
apprehensions of Americans in a troubled time. FALLING somewhere 
in a category between Einstein's theory and sand fleas- difficult 
to see but undeniably there, nevertheless- is the tropical green 
"city" of Islandia, a string of offshore islands that has almost 
no residents, limited access and an unlimited future. The latter is 
what concerns us all. Whatever land you can see here, from the North 
tip end of Elliott Key looking southward, belongs to someone- people 
who have title to the land. And what you can't see, the land 
underneath the water, belongs to someone, too. The public. The only 
real problem is to devise a plan whereby the owners of the above-water 
land can develop their property without the public losing its underwater 
land and the right to its development for public use and enjoyment. 
In the fairly brief but hectic history of Florida, the developers 
of waterfront land have too often wound up with both their land and ours. 
In this instance, happily, insistence is being made that our share 
is protected. And until this protection is at least as concrete as, 
say, the row of hotels that bars us from our own sands at Miami Beach, 
those who represent us all should agree to nothing. 

#CLOSED DOORS IN CITY HALL# 

The reaction of certain City Council members to 
California's newest anti-secrecy laws was as dismaying as it was disappointing.

We had assumed that at least this local legislative 
body had nothing to hide, and, therefore, had no objections to making 
the deliberations of its committees and the city commissions available 
to the public.   In the preamble to the open-meeting statutes, 
collectively known as the Brown Act, the Legislature declares that 
"the public commissions, boards and councils and other public agencies 
in this state exist to aid in the conduct of the people's business. 
It is the intent of the law that their actions be taken openly and 
that their deliberations be conducted openly.   "The people 
of this state do not yield their sovereignty to the agencies that serve 
them. The people, in delegating authority, do not give their public 
servants the right to decide what is good for the people to know and 
what is not good for them to know.   The full implementation of 
these noble words, however, has taken the efforts of five sessions of 
the Legislature. Since 1953 California has led the nation in enacting 
guarantees that public business shall be publicly conducted, but not 
until this year did the lawmakers in Sacramento plug the remaining 
loopholes in the Brown Act.   Despite the lip service paid by 
local governments, the anti-secrecy statutes have been continuously subverted 
by reservations and rationalizations. When all else fails, it 
is argued that open sessions slow down governmental operations.

We submit that this is a most desirable effect of the law- and one 
of its principal aims. Without public scrutiny the deliberations 
of public agencies would no doubt be conducted more speedily. But the 
citizens would, of course, never be sure that the decisions that resulted 
were as correct as they were expeditious. 

#HELP WHEN NEEDED#

@ IF THE Dominican Republic achieves 
free, democratic government, it will be due in large part to the U&S& 
show of force that enabled President Balaguer to prevent a threatened 
restoration of Trujillo dictatorship.   Outwardly, Ciudad 
Trujillo is calm. None of the Trujillo family remains. Mr& 
Balaguer is in control, and opposition leaders have no further excuse 
to suspect his offer of a coalition government preliminary to free elections 
in the spring.   Had U&S& warships not appeared off 
the Dominican coast, there is every possibility that the country would 
now be wracked by civil war. Ultimately either the Trujillos would 
have been returned to power or the conflict would have produced conditions 
favorable to a takeover by Dominican elements responsive to Castro 
in Cuba.   Within the Organization of American States, 
there may be some criticism of this unilateral American intervention 
which was not without risk obviously. But there was no complaint from 
the Dominican crowds which lined Ciudad Trujillo's waterfront 
shouting, "Vive Yankees"! More, the U&S& action was hailed 
by a principal opposition leader, Dr& Juan Bosch, as having saved 
"many lives and many troubles in the near future".   Mr& 
Balaguer's troubles are by no means over. He will need the help 
of all ~OAS members to eradicate, finally, the forces of authoritarianism, 
pro-Trujillo and pro-Castro alike. In cooperating toward 
that objective, ~OAS might move with the speed and effectiveness 
demonstrated by the United States. @ 

#MATTER OF SURVIVAL#

@ 
THOSE watching the growing rivalry between craft unions and industrial 
unions may recognize all the pressures that led to the big labor 
split in 1935.   Now, as then, it is a matter of jobs. Craft 
unions seek work that industrial unions claim, such as factory maintenance.

The issue was sufficiently potent in 1935 to spark secession 
from the American Federation of Labor of its industrial union 
members. That breach was healed 20 years later by merger of the American 
Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations. 
Or that's what it looked like at the time.   But automation 
and the increasing complexity of factories has renewed the competition 
for jobs. Walter Reuther, leader of the industrial union faction 
of the ~AFL-~CIO, says another two years of this squabbling 
will be disastrous for all American labor.   Whether it could 
be as disastrous for American labor as, say, Jimmy Hoffa of the 
Teamsters, is a matter of conjecture. But the jurisdictional disputes 
that result from the craft-industrial rivalry do not win friends for 
labor.   Engaged as it is in a battle for world trade as a condition 
of national survival, this country can have little patience with 
labor's family feuds. The concept of labor as a special class is 
outmoded, and in the task confronting America as bastion of the free 
world, labor must learn to put the national interest first if it is itself 
to survive. @ 

#DETERRENT#

@ THE Army, Navy and Air 
Force, among others, may question Secretary Freeman's claim that 
the high estate of United States agriculture is the "strongest 
deterrent" to the spread of communism. But the secretary insists that 
the success of the American farmer is the "greatest single source 
of strength" in the struggle to insure freedom around the world.

Mr& Freeman said that in many of the countries he visited on 
a recent world trade trip people were more awed by America's capacity 
to produce food surpluses than by our industrial production- or 
even by the Soviet's successes in space. This shouldn't surprise 
the secretary; American taxpayers have been impressed by the surpluses 
for a long, long time.   In fact, over the years, the American 
farmer's capacity to over-produce has cost the taxpayers a large 
dollar. And thus far, Mr& Freeman has offered very little relief.

The 1961 feed grain program, which the secretary sponsored, 
has been declared a billion dollar fiasco. In exchange for higher price 
supports, growers pledged reduction in planted acreage. But the 
farmers outsmarted Washington by shortening the distance between the 
rows and pouring on the fertilizer.   The result: $1.1 billion 
added to the deficit in the federal budget. Perhaps, as Mr& Freeman 
says, American agriculture may stop the Communists, but it is also 
swindling the American taxpayer. @ 

#WHAT'S WRONG AT STATE# 
@ A SENATE subcommittee headed by Sen& Jackson of Washington 
has been going over the State Department and has reached some 
predictable conclusions. The department needs a clearer "sense of 
direction" at the top and it needs fewer, but better, people, Sen& 
Jackson says.   The subcommittee is not alone in questioning 
the effectiveness of the department. President Kennedy has indicated 
his dissatisfaction with its performance.   But those who would 
revitalize so complex an organization must, first of all, overcome the 
resistance of layers of officials wedded to traditional procedures, 
suspicious of innovation and fearful of mistakes.   Nor does Sen& 
Jackson discuss the delicate situation created by the presence in 
the White House of a corps of presidential assistants engaged in the 
study of foreign policy. This tends to create friction and confusion 
and has not made it easier for Secretary Rusk to restore vigor and 
initiative among his subordinates.   But competent observers believe 
he is making progress, particularly toward what Sen& Jackson 
lists as the primary need- "a clearer understanding of where our 
vital national interests lie and what we must do to promote them".

The Jackson report will provide some of the political support 
Mr& Rusk will need if he is to get rid of department personnel 
engaged, as Sen& Jackson puts it, "in work that does not really 
need doing". Mr& Rusk should also draw comfort from Sen& Jackson's 
recommendation that congressional methods of dealing with national 
security problems be improved. Self-criticism is a rare but needed 
commodity in Congress. @ 

#BETTING MEN#

@ FORECASTING 
economic activity is a hazardous undertaking even for the specialist. 
But now apparently the job of Secretary of Labor requires that he 
be willing to risk his reputation as a prognosticator of unemployment 
trends.   James P& Mitchell, when he was the head of the department, 
promised to eat his hat if unemployment didn't drop below 
three million a couple of years ago. He lost, but settled for a cake 
in the shape of a fedora.   His successor, Secretary Goldberg, 
also has been guessing wrong on a drop in the unemployment rate which 
has been holding just under 7 per cent for the last 11 months. No 
betting man, Mr& Goldberg says he's merely "putting my neck out 
again" by predicting the rate will go down this month. He is basing 
his guess on new government statistics that show business has broadened 
its stride- a new record high in personal income, an increase 
in housing starts, a spurt in retail sales and a gain in orders for 
durable goods.   Mr& Mitchell had an excuse for losing- the 
steel strike lasted much longer than he anticipated. Mr& Goldberg 
has less reason for missing. The economy seems to be sailing along on 
an even keel and the 1961 hurricane season and auto strikes are at an 
end so they can't be blamed in November. The odds thus appear favorable 
that the secretary's neck may be spared. @ 

#LITTLE RESISTANCE# 
@ CAMBODIA'S chief of state, who has been accused of 
harboring Communist marauders and otherwise making life miserable for 
neighboring South Viet Nam and Thailand, insists he would be very 
unhappy if communism established its power in Southeast Asia.

But so convinced of communism's inevitable triumph is Prince 
Sihanouk that he is ready to throw in the towel. "I have to see the 
facts", is the way the prince puts it. And from that point of vantage 
he concedes another two years of grace to nations maintaining a pro-Western 
posture.   Prince Sihanouk's powers of prognostication 
some day may be confirmed but history is not likely to praise the 
courage of his convictions. 

#BOTTOM SIGHTED#

@ COMMERCE Secretary Hodges seems to have 
been cast in the role of pacemaker for official Washington's economic 
forecasters. Weeks ago he saw a business upturn in the second 
quarter of this year while his colleagues in the Cabinet were shaking 
their heads in disagreement. Recently Treasury Secretary Dillon and 
Labor Secretary Goldberg fell into line with Mr& Hodges' appraisal, 
though there has been some reluctance to do so at the White 
House.   And now Mr& Hodges has pioneered further into the 
economic unknown with the announcement that he thinks business has stopped 
sliding and that it should start going upward from this point. He 
is the first top administration officer to see the bottom of the slump.

The secretary based his assessment on the upturn in retail 
sales. February's volume was 1 per cent above January's for the 
first pickup since last October, although it's still 1.5 per cent 
off from February 1960.   Corroborating Mr& Hodges' figures 
was the Federal Reserve Board's report of the large sales increase 
in the nation's department stores for the week ending March 4. 
In Newark, for example, this gain was put at 26 per cent above the 
year-earlier level. Of course, some of the credit for the sale boost 
must be given to improvement in the weather and to the fact that Easter 
comes more than two weeks earlier than in 1960.   Another optimistic 
sign, this one from the Labor Department, was the report that 
the long rise in unemployment compensation payments "was interrupted 
for the first time in the week ending Feb& 25". Initial claims 
for jobless benefits were said to have dropped by 8,100 in the week 
ending March 4.   Mr& Hodges is so hopeful over the outlook 
that he doesn't think there will be any need of a cut in income taxes. 
Well, we can't have everything. Prosperity for the whole nation 
is certainly preferred to a tax cut. @ 

#IN NEW JERSEY, TOO# 
@ NEW JERSEY folk need not be told of the builder's march to 
the sea, for in a single generation he has parceled and populated miles 
of our shoreline and presses on to develop the few open spaces that 
remain. Now the Stone Harbor bird sanctuary, 31 acres of magic attraction 
for exotic herons, is threatened, but the battlefront extends 
far beyond our state.   Against the dramatic fight being waged 
for preservation of 30 miles of Cape Cod shoreline, the tiny tract 
at Stone Harbor may seem unimportant. But Interior Secretary Udall 
warns that there is a race on between those who would develop our few 
surviving open shorelines and those who would save them for the enjoyment 
of all as public preserves.   The move for establishment 
of a national seashore park on 30,000 acres of Cape Cod, from Provincetown 
to Chatham, is strengthened by President Kennedy's interest 
in that area. But preservation of the natural beauty of the Cape 
is of more than regional concern, for the automobile age has made it the 
recreation spot of people from all over the country.   By comparison, 
Stone Harbor bird sanctuary's allies seem less formidable, 
for aside from the Audubon Society, they are mostly the snowy, 
common and cattle egrets and the Louisiana, green, little blue and 
black-crowned herons who nest and feed there. But there is hope, for 
Conservation Commissioner Bontempo has tagged the sanctuary as the 
kind of place the state hopes to include in its program to double its 
park space.   The desirability of preserving such places as the 
Cape dunes and Stone Harbor sanctuary becomes more apparent every 
year. Public sentiment for conserving our rich natural heritage is 
growing. But that heritage is shrinking even faster. @ 

#NO JOYRIDE# 
@ MUCH of the glamor President Kennedy's Peace Corps 
may have held for some prospective applicants has been removed by Sargent 
Shriver, the head corpsman. Anybody who is expecting a joyride 
should, according to Mr& Shriver, get off the train right now.

First of all, the recruits will have to undergo arduous schooling. 
It will be a 16-hour training day. Then off to a remote place in 
an underdeveloped country where the diet, culture, language and living 
conditions will be different. And the pay, of course, will be nil.

Despite all this, the idea apparently has captured the imagination 
of countless youths whose parents are probably more surprised by 
the response than anybody else.

The study of the St& Louis area's economic prospects prepared 
for the Construction Industry Joint Conference confirms and 
reinforces both the findings of the Metropolitan St& Louis Survey 
of 1957 and the easily observed picture of the Missouri-Illinois 
countryside.   St& Louis sits in the center of a relatively slow-growing 
and in some places stagnant mid-continent region. Slackened 
regional demand for St& Louis goods and services reflects the region's 
relative lack of purchasing power. Not all St& Louis industries, 
of course, have a market area confined to the immediate neighborhood. 
But for those which do, the slow growth of the area has a retarding 
effect on the metropolitan core. The city has a stake in stimulating 
growth and purchasing power throughout outstate Missouri and Southern 
Illinois.   Gov& Dalton's new Commerce and Industry 
Commission is moving to create a nine-state regional group in a collective 
effort to attract new industry. That is one approach. Another 
would be to take the advice of Dr& Elmer Ellis, president of 
the University of Missouri, and provide for an impartial professional 
analysis of Missouri's economy. He says the state, in order to 
proceed with economic development, must develop an understanding of how 
the various parts of its economy fit together and dovetail into the 
national economy. @   The research center of the University's 
School of Business and Public Administration is prepared to undertake 
the analysis Dr& Ellis has been talking about. He and Dean 
John W& Schwada of the Business School outlined the project at 
a recent conference. The University can make a valuable contribution 
to the state's economic development through such a study. 
In Southern Illinois, the new federal program of help to economically 
depressed areas ought to provide some stimulus to growth. The Carbondale 
Industrial Development Corp& has obtained a $500,000 loan 
to help defray the cost of remodeling a city-owned factory to accommodate 
production that will provide 500 new jobs. Carbondale is in the 
Herrin-Murphysboro-West 
Frankfort labor market, where unemployment 
has been substantially higher than the national average. The Federal 
program eventually should have a favorable impact on Missouri's depressed 
areas, and in the long run that will benefit St& Louis as 
well. @

Politics-ridden St& Clair county in Illinois presents 
another piece of the problem of metropolitan development. More industrial 
acreage lies vacant in St& Clair county than in any other 
jurisdiction in the St& Louis area. The unstable political situation 
there represents one reason new plants shy away from the East Side.

And then there is St& Louis county, where the Democratic 
leadership has shown little appreciation of the need for sound zoning, 
of the important relationship between proper land use and economic 
growth. St& Louis county under its present leadership also has 
largely closed its eyes to the need for governmental reform, and permitted 
parochial interests to take priority over area-wide interests. Some 
plant-location specialists take these signs to mean St& Louis 
county doesn't want industry, and so they avoid the area, and more 
jobs are lost.   Metropolitan St& Louis's relatively slow 
rate of growth ought to be a priority concern of the political, business, 
civic and other leaders on both sides of the Mississippi. Without 
a great acceleration in the metropolitan area's economy, there will 
not be sufficient jobs for the growing numbers of youngsters, and St& 
Louis will slip into second-class status. 

#AN EXCESS OF ZEAL# 

Many of our very best friends are reformers. Still we must confess 
that sometimes some of them go too far. Take, for example, the reformers 
among New York City's Democrats. Having whipped Mr& De 
Sapio in the primaries and thus come into control of Tammany Hall, 
they have changed the name to Chatham Hall. Even though headquarters 
actually have been moved into the Chatham building, do they believe 
that they can make the new name stick?   Granted that the Tammany 
name and the Tammany tiger often were regarded as badges of political 
shame, the sachems of the Hall also have a few good marks to 
their credit. But it is tradition rather than the record which balks 
at the expunging of the Tammany name. After all, it goes back to the 
days in which sedition was not un-American, the days in which the Sons 
of St& Tammany conspired to overthrow the government by force 
and violence- the British government that is.   Further, do 
our reforming friends really believe that the cartoonists will consent 
to the banishment of the tiger from their zoo? They will- when they 
give up the donkey and the elephant. Instead of attempting the impossible, 
why not a publicity campaign to prove that all the tiger's 
stripes are not black? That might go over. 

#THE FAGET CASE#

The 
White House itself has taken steps to remove a former Batista official, 
Col& Mariano Faget, 
from his preposterous position as interrogator 
of Cuban refugees for the Immigration Service.   The 
Faget appointment was preposterous on several grounds. The Kennedy 
Administration had assured anti-Castro Cubans that it would have 
nothing to do with associates of Dictator Batista. Using a Batista 
man to screen refugees represented a total misunderstanding of the democratic 
forces which alone can effectively oppose Castro.   Moreover, 
Col& Faget's information on Cuba was too outdated to be 
useful in "screening" Castro agents; the Colonel fled to the 
friendly haven of the Dominican dictatorship as soon as Castro seized 
power. And while he had headed Batista's anti-Communist 
section, 
the Batista regime did not disturb the Communists so much as more open 
opponents who were alleged to be Communists.   Responsibility 
for the Faget appointment rests with Gen& J& M& swing, an 
Eisenhower appointee as head of the Immigration Service. Gen& Swing 
has received public attention before this for abuse of some of the 
prerogatives of his office. His official term expired last summer. 
Some reports say he was rescued from timely retirement by his friend, 
Congressman Walter of Pennsylvania, at a moment when the Kennedy 
Administration was diligently searching for all the House votes it 
could get.   Congressman Walter has been all-powerful in immigration 
matters, but he has announced plans to retire in 1962. At that 
point the Administration will have little reason to hang onto Gen& 
Swing. The Faget case was the kind of salvage job the Administration 
should not have to repeat. 

#MR& EISENHOWER, POLITICIAN#

As 
President, Dwight D& Eisenhower often assumed a role aloof from 
the strife of partisan politics. As a former President, however, Mr& 
Eisenhower abandoned this role to engage in partisan sniping during 
a New York Republican rally, and generally missed his target.

Mr& Eisenhower seized upon the incident of the postcard lost 
by a Peace Corps girl in Nigeria to attack the entire Corps as a 
"juvenile experiment" and to suggest sending a Corps member to the 
moon. This was juvenile ridicule. Nowhere did the speaker recognize 
the serious purpose of the Corps or its welcome reception abroad. His 
words were the more ungracious to come from a man who lent his name 
to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships dedicated to the same goal 
of international understanding.   The former President blithely 
ignored recent history in speaking of "dollarette" dollars under 
Kennedy Administration fiscal policies. It was the Eisenhower Administration 
which produced the largest peacetime deficit.   Finally, 
Mr& Eisenhower found nothing but confusion in Washington. 
This statement recalls the 1959 Berlin crisis, when President Eisenhower 
first told reporters that Berlin could not be defended with conventional 
weapons and then added that a nuclear defense was out of the 
picture too. The crisis has been renewed since then but the confusion 
has hardly been compounded.   Ex-Presidents, relieved of accountability 
for policy, sometimes seem to feel free of accountability 
for their words. Some of former President Truman's off-the-cuff 
discourses have been in that vein. Nobody can deny the right of former 
Chief Executives to take part in politics, but the American people 
expect them always to remember the obligations of national leadership 
and to treat issues with a sense of responsibility. This is a matter 
of respect for the Presidency. Mr& Eisenhower's New York speech 
does not encourage respect for that or for his elder statesmanship. 

#QUEEN OF THE SEAS#

The Queen Mary has long been a symbol of 
speed, luxury, and impeccable British service on the high seas. Reports 
that the venerable liner, which has been in service since 1936, was 
to be retired struck a nostalgic note in many of us. But the Cunard 
line, influenced by unpleasant economic facts and not sentiment, has 
decided to keep the Queen Mary in service until next Spring at least.

A new queen, with the prosaic title of ~Q3, had been planned 
for several years to replace the Queen Mary. The British government, 
concerned about the threat of unemployment in the shipbuilding 
industry, had put through a bill to give Cunard loans and grants totaling 
$50,400,000 toward the $84,000,000 cost of a new 75,000-ton passenger 
liner.   Since 1957, more and more trans-Atlantic passengers 
have been crossing by air. Economy class fares and charter flights 
have attracted almost all new passengers to the airlines. Competition 
from other steamship lines has cut Cunard's share of sea passengers 
from one-third to one-fourth and this year the line showed a marked 
drop of profits on the Atlantic run.   The Cunard line has 
under consideration replacing the Queen Mary with a ship smaller than 
75,000 tons. This would be cheaper to operate and could be used for 
cruises during the lean winter months. Also under consideration is 
an increased investment in Cunard Eagle Airways which has applied to 
serve New York.   The decline of the Cunard line from its position 
of dominance in Atlantic travel is a significant development 
in the history of transportation. 

#MISSION TO VIET NAM#

Gen& Maxwell 
Taylor's statement in Saigon that he is "very much encouraged" 
about the chances of the pro-Western government of Viet Nam 
turning back Communist guerrilla attacks comes close to an announcement 
that he will not recommend dispatching United States troops to 
bolster the Vietnamese Army. Gen& Taylor will report to President 
Kennedy in a few days on the results of his visit to South Viet 
Nam and, judging from some of his remarks to reporters in the Far East, 
he is likely to urge a more efficient mobilization of Vietnamese 
military, economic, political and other resources.   There was 
good reason for Gen& Taylor to make an inspection trip at this time. 
Communist guerrillas recently have been reported increasing their 
activities and the great flood of the Mekong River has interposed a 
new crisis. South Viet Nam's rice surplus for next year- more than 
300,000 tons- may have been destroyed. The Viet Cong, the Communist 
rebels, may have lost their stored grain and arms factories. 
The 
rebels may try to seize what is left of the October harvest when the 
floods recede and the monsoon ends in November.   Nothing that 
is likely to happen, however, should prompt the sending of United 
States soldiers for other than instructional missions. The Indochina 
struggle was a war to stay out of in 1954, when Gen& Ridgway 
estimated 
it would take a minimum of 10 to 15 divisions at the outset to win 
a war the French were losing. It is a war to stay out of today, especially 
in view of the fact that President Ngo Dinh Diem apparently 
does not want United States troops. He may want additional technical 
help, and this should be forthcoming. South Viet Nam has received 
$1,450,000,000 in United States aid since 1954 and the rate of assistance 
has been stepped up since Vice President Lyndon B& Johnson's 
visit last May.   Gen& Taylor, the President's 
special military adviser, is a level-headed officer who is not likely 
to succumb to propaganda or pressure. It is probable that his recommendations 
will be informed and workable, and that they will not lead to 
involving the United States in an Asian morass.

Gov& John M& Dalton, himself a lawyer and a man of long 
service in government, spoke with rich background and experience when 
he said in an address here that lawyers ought to quit sitting in the 
Missouri General Assembly, or quit accepting fees from individuals 
and corporations who have controversies with or axes to grind with the 
government and who are retained, not because of their legal talents, 
but because of their government influence. 

#THE U& N&'S 'GRAVEST CRISIS'#

Ambassador Stevenson yesterday 
described the U& N&'s problem of electing a temporary 
successor to the late Dag Hammarskjold as "the gravest crisis the 
institution has faced". Of course it is. If the decision goes wrong, 
it may be- as Mr& Stevenson fears- "the first step on the 
slippery path downhill" to a U& N& without operational responsibilities 
and without effective meaning.   The integrity of the 
office not merely requires that the Secretary General shall be, as 
the Charter puts it, "the chief administrative officer of the Organization", 
but that neither he nor his staff shall seek or receive instructions 
from any government or any other authority "external to 
the Organization". In other words, the Secretary General is to be 
a nonpartisan, international servant, not a political, national one. 
He should be, as Dag Hammarskjold certainly was, a citizen of the 
world.   The Charter does stipulate that "due regard" shall 
be paid to the importance of recruiting the staff on "as wide a geographical 
basis as possible". The United States and its allies have 
had no objection to this. What they have objected to is the attempt 
of the Russians to make use of the tragedy of Dag Hammarskjold's 
death to turn the entire U& N& staff from the Secretary down 
into political agents of the respective countries from which they come.

The controversy now revolves mainly around the number and geographic 
origin of the deputies of the Secretary General and, more particularly, 
around the nature of his relationship with them. Although 
the United States and the U& S& S& R& have been arguing 
whether there shall be four, five or six top assistants, the most important 
element in the situation is not the number of deputies but the 
manner in which these deputies are to do their work.   If any one 
of them has any power to veto the Secretary General's decisions 
the nature of the organization will have changed. If they give him advice 
when he asks it, or if they perform specified duties under his direction, 
the nature of the U& N& will not of necessity change. 
The Secretary General must have, subject to the constitutional direction 
of the Security Council and the General Assembly, the power 
to act, to propose action and to organize action without being hobbled 
by advisers and assistants acting on someone else's instructions.

This is the root issue for which the United States should stand. 
We should not become confused or let our public become confused over 
irrelevant questions of number or even of geography. What we must 
have, if the United Nations is to survive, is as nonpolitical, nonpartisan 
an organization at the top as human beings can make it, subject 
to no single nation's direction and subservient to no single nation's 
ambition. 

#WHAT THE NEW CHARTER DOES#

The new City Charter, 
which should get a Yes vote as Question No& 1 on Nov& 7, would 
not make a good Mayor out of a bad one. There is no such magic 
in man-made laws. But it would greatly strengthen any Mayor's executive 
powers, remove the excuse in large degree that he is a captive of 
inaction in the Board of Estimate, increase his budget-making authority 
both as to expense and capital budgets, and vest in him the right 
to reorganize city departments in the interest of efficiency and economy.

Lawmaking power is removed from the Board of Estimate 
and made 
a partnership responsibility of the City Council and the Mayor. Thus 
there is a clearer division of authority, administrative and legislative. 
The board is diminished in both respects, while it retains control 
over zoning, franchises, pier leases, sale, leasing and assignment 
of property, and other trusteeship functions. The board will be able 
to increase, decrease, add or eliminate budget items, subject to the 
Mayor's veto; but the City Council will now share fully this 
budget-altering power. Overriding of mayoral veto on budget changes 
will require concurrence by board and Council, and a two-thirds vote.

The Controller retains his essential "fiscal watchdog" functions; 
his broad but little used investigative powers are confirmed. 
He loses now-misplaced tax collection duties, which go to the Finance 
Department. On net balance, in spite of Controller Gerosa's 
opposition to the new Charter as an invasion of his office, the Controller 
will have the opportunity for greater usefulness to good government 
than he has now.   Borough Presidents, while retaining 
membership in the Board of Estimate, lose their housekeeping functions. 
Highways go to a new Department of Highways, sewers to the Department 
of Public Works, such street cleaning as Borough Presidents 
now do (in Queens and Richmond) to the Sanitation Department.

Some fiscal changes are important. The expense (operating) budget 
is to be a program budget, and red tape is cut to allow greater autonomy 
(with the Mayor approving) in fund transfers within a department. 
The capital budget, for construction of permanent improvements, becomes 
an appropriating document instead of just a calendar of pious promises; 
but, as a second-look safeguard, each new project must undergo 
a Board of Estimate public hearing before construction proceeds.

A road block to desirable local or borough improvements, heretofore 
dependent on the pocketbook vote of taxpayers and hence a drag on 
progress, is removed by making these a charge against the whole city 
instead of an assessment paid by those immediately affected. This will 
have a beneficial effect by expediting public business; it will also 
correct some injustices.   Enlargement of the City Council 
and a new method of selecting members will be discussed tomorrow. 

#INTER-AMERICAN PRESS#

The Inter-american Press Association, 
which blankets the Western Hemisphere from northern Canada to Cape 
Horn, is meeting in New York City this week for the first time in 
eleven years. The I& A& P& A& is a reflection of the problems 
and hopes of the hemisphere; and in these days this inevitably 
means a concentration on the effects of the Cuban revolution. 
As the press in Cuba was gradually throttled by the Castro regime, 
more and more Cuban publishers, editors and correspondents were forced 
into exile. The I& A& P& A& found itself driven from journalism 
into politics as it did its best to bring about the downfall 
of the Castro Government and the return of the Cuban press to the 
freedom it knew before Batista's dictatorship began in 1952. 
Freedom of the press was lost in Cuba because of decades of corruption 
and social imbalances. In such conditions all freedoms are lost. 
This, in more diplomatic language, is what Adlai Stevenson told the 
newspaper men of Latin America yesterday on behalf of the United States 
Government. He felt able to end on a note of hope. He sees evidence 
of fair winds for the ten-year Alliance for Progress plan with 
its emphasis on social reforms. No group can contribute more to the 
success of the program than the editors and publishers of the Inter-American 
Press Association. 

#MEETING IN MOSCOW#

The Twenty-second 
Soviet Communist Party Congress opens in Moscow today in a 
situation contrasting sharply with the script prepared many months ago 
when this meeting was first announced. According to the original program, 
Premier Khrushchev expected the millions looking toward the Kremlin 
this morning to be filled with admiration or rage- depending 
upon individual or national politics- because of the "bold program 
for building communism in our time" which the Congress will adopt. 
But far from being concerned about whether or not Russia will have 
achieved Utopia by 1980, the world is watching Moscow today primarily 
for clues as to whether or not there will be nuclear Armageddon in 
the immediate future.   The evident contradiction between the rosy 
picture of Russia's progress painted by the Communist party's 
program and the enormous dangers for all humanity posed by Premier 
Khrushchev's Berlin policy has already led to speculation abroad that 
the program may be severely altered. Whether it is or not, the propaganda 
impact on the free world of the document scheduled to be adopted 
at this meeting will be far less than had been originally anticipated. 
And there must be many Soviet citizens who know what is going on 
and who realize that before they can hope to enjoy the full life promised 
for 1980 they and their children must first survive.   This 
Congress will see Premier Khrushchev consolidating his power and 
laying the groundwork for an orderly succession should death or illness 
remove him from the scene in the next few years. The widespread purge 
that has taken place the past twelve months or so among Communist 
leaders in the provinces gives assurance that the party officials who 
will dominate the Congress, and the Central Committee it will elect, 
will all have passed the tightest possible Khrushchev screening, both 
for loyalty to him and for competence and performance on the job. 

#DR& CONANT'S CALL TO ACTION#

Dr& James B& Conant has 
earned a nationwide reputation as a moderate and unemotional school reformer. 
His earlier reports considered the American public schools 
basically sound and not in need of drastic change. Now, a close look 
at the schools in and around the ten largest cities, including New York, 
has shattered this optimism. Dr& Conant has come away shocked 
and angry. His new book, entitled "Slums and Suburbs", calls for 
fast and drastic action to avert disaster.   There is room for 
disagreement concerning some of Dr& Conant's specific views. His 
strong opposition to the transfer of Negro children to schools outside 
their own neighborhood, in the interest of integration, will be 
attacked by Negro leaders who have fought for, and achieved, this open 
or permissive enrollment. Dr& Conant may underestimate the psychological 
importance of even token equality.   His suggestion that 
the prestige colleges be made the training institutions for medical, 
law and graduate schools will run into strong opposition from these colleges 
themselves- even though what he is recommending is already taking 
shape as a trend.   But these are side issues to a powerful 
central theme. That theme cuts through hypocrisies, complacency and 
double-talk. It labels the slums, especially the Negro slums, as dead-end 
streets for hundreds of thousands of youngsters. The villains 
of the piece are those who deny job opportunities to these youngsters, 
and Dr& Conant accuses employers and labor unions alike. The facts, 
he adds, are hidden from public view by squeamish objections to calling 
bad conditions by their right name and by insistence on token integration 
rather than on real improvement of the schools, regardless of 
the color of their students.   A call for action "before it 
is too late" has alarming implications when it comes from a man who, 
in his 
previous reports on the schools, cautioned so strongly against extreme 
measures. These warnings must not be treated lightly. Dr& Conant's 
conscientious, selfless efforts deserve the nation's 
gratitude. 
He has served in positions of greater glamour, both at home and abroad; 
but he may well be doing his greatest service with his straightforward 
report on the state of the public schools. 

#AND NOW- MORE JUNK MAIL#

A fascinating letter has just reached 
this desk from a correspondent who likes to receive so-called junk mail. 
He was delighted to learn that the Post Office Department is now 
going to expand this service to deliver mail from Representatives 
in Congress to their constituents without the use of stamps, names, addresses 
or even zone numbers. In accordance with legislation passed 
at the last session of Congress, each Representative is authorized to 
deliver to the Post Office in bulk newsletters, speeches and other 
literature to be dropped in every letter box in his district. This means 
an added burden to innumerable postmen, who already are complaining 
of heavy loads and low pay, and it presumably means an increased postal 
deficit, but, our correspondent writes, think of the additional junk 
mail each citizen will now be privileged to receive on a regular basis. 
@ 

#OUR CREDITORS DO NOT FORGET US#

Letter writing is a dying 
art. Occasional letters are sent by individuals to one another and 
many are written by companies to one another, but these are mostly 
typewritten. Most mail these days consists of nothing that could truly 
be called a letter.

Old, tired, trembling the woman came to the cannery. She had, 
she said, heard that the plant was closing. It couldn't close, she 
said. She had raised a calf, grown it beef-fat. She had, with her own 
work-weary hands, put seeds in the ground, watched them sprout, bud, 
blossom, and get ready to bear. She was ready to kill the beef, dress 
it out, and with vegetables from her garden was going to can soup, broth, 
hash, and stew against the winter. She had done it last year, and 
the year before, and the year before that, and she, and her people 
were dependent upon these cans for food.   This did not happen in 
counties of North Georgia, where the rivers run and make rich the 
bottom land. Nor in South Georgia, where the summer sun shines warmly 
and gives early life to the things growing in the flat fields.

This happened in Decatur, DeKalb County, not 10 miles from the 
heart of metropolitian Atlanta.   And now, the woman, tired and 
trembling, came here to the DeKalb County cannery. "Is it so the 
cannery is going to close"?   O& N& Moss, 61, tall, 
grey as a possum, canning plant chief since 1946, didn't know what 
to say. He did say she could get her beef and vegetables in cans this 
summer. He did say he was out of cans, the No& 3's, but "I requisitioned 
22,000". He said he had No& 2's enough to last two 
weeks more.   Threat of closing the cannery is a recent one. A 
three-man committee has recommended to Commission Chairman Charles 
O& Emmerich that the DeKalb County cannery be closed. Reason: 
the cannery loses $3,000 yearly.   But DeKalb citizens, those 
who use the facilities of the cannery, say the cannery is not supposed 
to make any money.   "The cannery", said Mrs& Lewellyn 
Lundeen, an active booster of the cannery since its opening during 
the war and rationing years of 1941, to handle the "victory garden" 
produce, "is a service to the taxpayer. And one of the best services 
available to the people who try to raise and can meat, to plant, 
grow vegetables and put them up. It helps those people who help themselves.

"The county, though, seems more interested in those 
people who don't even try, those who sit and draw welfare checks and 
line up for surplus food".   A driver of a dairy truck, who 
begins work at 1 a&m& finishes before breakfast, then goes out and 
grows a garden, and who has used the cannery to save and feed a family 
of five, asked, "What in the world will we do"?   "What 
in the world", echoed others, those come with the beans, potatoes, 
the tomatoes, "will any of us do"?   Moss, a man who knows 
how much the cannery helps the county, doesn't believe it will close. 
But he is in the middle, an employe of DeKalb, but on the side 
of the people.   The young married people; the old couples. The 
dairy truck driver; the old woman with the stew.   "Don't 
ask me if I think the cannery helps", he said. "Sir, I know 
the cannery helps".

Most of us would be willing to admit that forgiveness comes hard. 
When a person has thoughtlessly or deliberately caused us pain or 
hardship it is not always easy to say, "Just forget it". There 
is one thing I know; a person will never have spiritual poise and inner 
peace as long as the heart holds a grudge. I know a man who held 
resentment against a neighbor for more than three decades. Several years 
ago I was his pastor. One night, at the close of the evening service, 
he came forward, left his resentment at the altar and gave his 
heart to God. After almost everyone had gone he told me the simple story 
of how one of his neighbors had moved a fence a few feet over on 
his land.   "We tried to settle this dispute", he said, "but 
could never come to an agreement. I settled it tonight", he continued. 
"I leave this church with a feeling that a great weight has 
been lifted off my heart, I have left my grudge at the altar and forgiven 
my neighbor".   Forgiveness is the door through which a 
person must pass to enter the Kingdom of God. You cannot wear the banner 
of God and at the same time harbor envy, jealousy and grudges in 
your heart. Henry van Dyke said, "Forgive and forget if you can; 
but forgive anyway".   Jesus made three things clear about 
forgiveness. We must, first of all, be willing to forgive others before 
we can secure God's forgiveness. "For if ye forgive men their 
trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you: but if ye 
forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive 
your trespasses". Matthew 6:14-15. It will do no good to seek 
God's forgiveness until we have forgiven those who have done us wrong.

Then, Jesus indicated that God's forgiveness is unlimited. 
In the prayer Jesus taught his disciples to pray we find these 
words, "Forgive us our debts". When a person meets God's requirements 
for the experience of forgiveness he is forgiven. God's mercy 
and patience will last forever. Forgiveness implies more than a person 
wanting his past sins covered by God's love. It also implies 
that a man wants his future to be free from the mistakes of the past. 
We want the past forgiven, but at the same time we must be willing for 
God to direct the future.   Finally, we must be willing to forgive 
others as many times as they sin against us. Once Peter asked, 
"How oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till 
seven times? Jesus saith unto him, until seventy times seven". 
Matthew 18:21-22.   Jesus not only taught forgiveness, He 
gave us an example of it on the cross. With all the energy of his broken 
body he prayed, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what 
they do". Luke 23:34.

She's been in and out of my house for a dozen years now, although 
she's still a teen-ager who looks like a baby, she is getting 
married. Her mother, now dead, was my good friend and when she came to 
tell us about her plans and to show off her ring I had a sobering wish 
to say something meaningful to her, something her mother would wish 
said. For a while there was such shrill girlish commotion I couldn't 
have made myself heard if I'd had the equivalent of the message 
to Garcia. But when some of the squeals had subsided and she had been 
through one of those sessions that are so indispensable to the young 
female- six girls sprawled on one bed, drinking Cokes and giggling- 
she came back to the kitchen to talk with me a minute.   "How 
do you know you love somebody enough to get married"? she asked.

It was the oldest and toughest question young lovers have 
ever asked: How can you be sure?   "Aren't you sure"? 
I asked, looking at her searchingly. I wanted to grab her by the 
arm and beg her to wait, to consider, to know for certain because life 
is so long and marriage is so important. But if she were just having 
a normal case of pre-nuptial jitters such a question might frighten 
her out of a really good marriage. Besides, in all honesty, I don't 
know how you can be sure. I don't know any secret recipe for certainty. 
In the fevered, intoxicating, breathless state of being in love 
the usual signposts that guide you to lasting and satisfying relationships 
are sometimes obscured. I knew of but one test and I threw it 
out to her for what it was worth.   "Does he ever bore you"? 
I asked.   "Bore me"? she was shocked. Oh, no-o! Why, 
he's so darling and **h"   "I mean", I went on ruthlessly, 
"when he's not talking about you or himself or the wonders 
of love, is he interesting? Does he care about things that matter 
to you? Can you visualize being stranded with him on a desert island 
for years and years and still find him fascinating?   Because, 
honey, I thought silently, there are plenty of desert islands in 
every marriage- long periods when you're hopelessly stranded, together. 
And if you bore each other then, heaven help you.   She came 
back the other day to reassure me. She has studied and observed and 
she is convinced that her young man is going to be endlessly enchanting.

She asked if I had other advice and, heady with success, 
I rushed it in, I hope not too late. Be friends with your mother-in-law. 
Jokes, cartoons and cynics to the contrary, mothers-in-law make 
good friends.

I do not know Dr& Wilson Sneed well. But I was deeply moved 
by his letter of resignation as rector of St& Luke's Church 
in Atlanta. It was the cry of not just one heart; it spoke for many 
in the clergy, I suspect. The pulpit is a lonely place. Who stops 
to think of that?   Imagine the searching and the prayer that 
lay behind the letter the rector wrote after almost a decade of service 
to this majestic church. "Such a church needs vigor and vitality 
in its rector and one man has only so much of these endowments", 
he told his members.   A minister should not stay "beyond the 
time that his leadership should benefit" his church, he wrote, "**h 
for he becomes ordinary **h". @ ##

And so the young minister 
resigned, to go and study and pray, having never passed a day, he 
told his parishioners, when "I did not gain from you far more than 
I ever gave to you".   His very honest act called up the recent 
talk I had with another minister, a modest Methodist, who said: 
"I feel so deeply blessed by God when I can give a message of love 
and comfort to other men, and I would have it no other way: and 
it is unworthy to think of self. But oh, how I do sometimes need just 
a moment of rest, and peace, in myself".   A man who gives 
himself to God and to the believers of his church takes upon himself 
a life of giving. He does not expect to get great riches or he would 
not have chosen to answer the call to preach. The good ones are not 
motivated to seek vainly, nor are they disposed to covet comfort, or they 
would have been led to fields that offer comfort and feed vanity. 
Theirs is a sacrificial life by earthly standards. ##

Yet we who 
lean upon such a man and draw strength from him and expect interpretation 
of the infinite through him- we who readily accept his sacrifice 
as our due, we of the congregations are the first to tell him what is 
in our minds instead of listening to what is in his soul. We press 
him to conform to our comfortable conceptions and not to bruise our satisfactions 
with his word, and God's. We do not defeat the good ones 
with this cruelty, but we add to their burden, while expecting them 
to bestow saintliness upon us in return for ostentatious church attendance 
and a few bucks a week, American cash. If we break the minister 
to our bit, we are buying back our own sins. If he won't break, we 
add to the stress he bears.   And a minister of all men is most 
conscious that he is mere man- prone to the stresses that earthly 
humanity is heir to. We expect him to be noble, and to make us so- 
yet he knows, and tries to tell us, how very humble man must be.

We expect bestowal of God's love through him. But how little love 
we give him. The church truly is not a rest home for saints, but a 
hospital for sinners. Yet every Sunday we sinners go to that emergency 
room to receive first aid, and we leave unmindful that the man who 
ministered to us is a human being who suffers, too.

Mr& Podger always particularly enjoyed the last night of each 
summer at Loon Lake. The narrow fringe of sadness that ran around 
it only emphasized the pleasure.   The evening was not always 
spent in the same way. This year, on a night cool with the front of September 
moving in, but with plenty of summer still about, the Podgers 
were holding a neighborhood gathering in the Pod. The little cottage 
was bursting with people of all ages.   In the midst of it all, 
Mr& Podger came out on the Pod porch, alone. He had that day 
attended a country auction, and he had come back with a prize. 
The prize was an old-fashioned, woven cloth hammock, complete with cross-top 
pillow, fringed side pieces, and hooks for hanging. Mrs& Podger 
had obligingly pushed things around on the porch to make room for 
it, and there it was, slung in a vine-shaded corner, the night breeze 
rippling its fringe with a slow, caressing movement.   Mr& 
Podger sat down in it, pushed himself back and forth in one or two 
slow, rhythmic motions, and then swung his feet up into it. He closed 
his eyes and let the unintelligible drift of voices sweep pleasantly 
over him. Suddenly one young voice rose above the others. "But", 
it said, "do you always <know> when you're happy"? 
The voice sank back into the general tangle of sound, but the question 
stayed in Mr& Podger's mind. Here, in the cool, autumn-touched 
evening, Mr& Podger mentally retraced a day that had left him greatly 
contented and at peace. #@#

It had begun with the blue jay 
feather. Walking along the lake before breakfast, Mr& Podger had 
seen the feather, and the bird that had lost it in flight. The winging 
spread of blue had gone on, calling harshly, into the wood. The 
small shaft of blue had drifted down and come to rest at his feet. All 
day long Mr& Podger, who was a straw-hat man in the summer, had 
worn 
the feather in the band of his broad-brimmed sunshield. Would a blue 
feather in a man's hat make him happy all day? Hardly. But it 
was something to have seen it floating down through the early morning 
sunshine, linking the blue of the sky with the blue of the asters by 
the lake.   Then, since the auction was being held nearby, he had 
walked to it. And there, on the way, had been the box turtle, that 
slow, self-contained, world-ignoring relic of pre-history, bent, for 
reasons best known to itself, on crossing the road. It was doing very 
well, too, having reached the center, and was pursuing its way with commendable 
singleness of purpose when Mr& Podger saw hazard approaching 
in the shape of a flashy little sports car. Would the driver see 
the turtle? Would he take pains to avoid it?   Mr& Podger 
took no chances. Taking off his hat and signaling the driver with 
it, Mr& Podger stepped into the road, lifted the surprised turtle 
and consummated its road-crossing with what must have been a breath-taking 
suddenness.   The turtle immediately withdrew into its private 
council room to study the phenomenon. But Mr& Podger and the 
driver of the sports car waved at each other. Here in the cool darkness 
Mr& Podger could still feel the warmth of midday, could still 
see the yellow butterflies dancing over the road, could still see the 
friendly grin on the young, sun-browned face as the driver looked back 
over his shoulder for a moment before the car streaked out of sight.

Where was the driver now? What was he doing? And the turtle? 
Mr& Podger smiled. For a few brief minutes they had all been 
part of one little drama. The three would never meet again, but for 
some reason or other Mr& Podger was sure he would always remember 
the incident.   Then there had been the auction itself. Mr& 
Podger heard again, at will, the voice of the auctioneer, the voices 
of the bidders, and finally the small boy who had been so interested 
in Mr& Podger's hammock purchase.   "I like them things, 
too", he had said. "We got one at home. You know what? If 
you're lyin' out in the hammock at night, and it gets kinda cool- 
you know- you just take these sides with the fringe on- see- 
and wrap 'em right over you. I do it, lots o' times- I like to 
lie in a hammock at night, by myself, when it's all quiet. **h The 
wind moves it a little bit- you know **h". #@#

Mr& Podger 
had 
thanked him gravely, and now he made use of the advice. As he pulled 
the fringed sides up and made himself into a cocoon, Mr& Podger 
saw that thin, attractive, freckled little face again, and hoped that 
the boy, too, was lying in a cool, fringed-wrapped quiet.   Alacrity, 
the Podger cat, came by the hammock, rubbed her back briefly 
against it, and then, sure of a welcome, hopped up. She remarked that 
she found the night wind a little chilly, and Mr& Podger took her 
inside the fringe. Soon her purring rivaled the chirping of the tree 
crickets, rivaled the hum of voices from inside the Pod.   Mr& 
Podger was just adding this to his pictures of the day when the screen 
door opened and Pam burst out. "Dad"! she said. "It's 
getting so chilly we've lighted a fire, and we're going to tell 
a round robin story- a nice, scary one. We need you to start it. Why 
are you out here all by yourself? Aren't you happy"?

Mr& Podger opened his cocoon and emerged, tucking Alacrity under 
his arm to bring her in by the fire. "Of course I am", he said. 
"Never happier in my life. I just came out here to know it". 

_DALLAS_ As the South begins another school year, national and even 
world 
attention is directed at the region's slow progress toward racial 
equality in the public schools.   Desegregation is beginning in 
two more important Southern cities- Dallas and Atlanta. In each 
city civic and education leaders have been working hard to get public 
opinion prepared to accept the inevitability of equal treatment.

These programs emphasize the acceptance of biracial classrooms peacefully. 
The programs do not take sides on the issue itself. They point 
out simply that "it is the law of the land".   The two 
cities have the examples of Little Rock and New Orleans to hold up 
as warnings against resorting to violence to try to stop the processes 
of desegregation. Even better, they have the examples of Nashville 
and Houston to hold up as peaceful and progressive programs. 
In each case there was an initial act of violence. In Nashville, a 
school was dynamited. In Houston, there were a few incidents of friction 
between whites and Negroes, none of which were serious.   In 
each city quick public reaction and fast action by the city government 
halted the threats of more serious incidents.   The Nashville 
plan, incidentally, has become recognized as perhaps the most acceptable 
and thus the most practical to put into effect in the troubled South. 
It is a "stair-step" plan, in which desegregation begins in 
the first grade. Each year another grade is added to the process, until 
finally all 12 grades are integrated. The schedules are flexible 
so that the program can be accelerated as the public becomes more tolerant 
or realizes that it is something that has to be done, "so why 
not now".   The program has worked well in both Nashville and 
Houston. It met a serious rebuff in New Orleans, where the two schools 
selected for the first moves toward integration were boycotted by 
white parents. Another attempt will be made this year in New Orleans 
to resume the program.   Generally, throughout the South, 
there is a 
growing impatience with the pattern of violence with which every 
step of desegregation is met.   Perhaps the most eloquent move 
toward removal of racial barriers has been in Dallas. During the summer, 
Negroes began quietly patronizing previously segregated restaurants 
and lunch counters in downtown retail establishments. It was part 
of a citywide move toward full integration.   So successful has 
been this program, worked out by white and Negro civic leaders, that 
further extensions are expected in the next few months. Hotels, for 
example, are ready to let down the bars. Already, at least one hotel 
has been quietly taking reservations on a nonracial basis. Several conventions 
have been held in recent months in hotels on a nonsegregated 
basis.   This is a radical change in attitude from the conditions 
which prevailed several years ago, when a series of bombings was directed 
against Negroes who were moving into previously all-white neighborhoods 
of Dallas.   It is also symptomatic of a change in attitude 
which appears to be spreading all across the South. Southern 
whites themselves are realizing that they had been wrong in using violence 
to try to stop Negroes from claiming equal rights. They insist 
they are ashamed of such violence and intimidation as occurred in Alabama 
when the Freedom Riders sought to break down racial discrimination 
in local bus depots.   All across the South there are signs 
that racial violence is finding less approval among whites who themselves 
would never take active part but might once have shown a tolerant 
attitude toward it.   There are many causes for this change. One 
of the most important is economic. Business leaders are aware now 
that they suffer greatly from any outbreak of violence. They are putting 
strong pressure on their police departments to keep order. In the 
past these same Southerners were inclined to look the other way.

And as the businessmen have begun to act, a real sense of 
co-operation 
has sprung up. This co-operation has emboldened other Southern whites 
to add their voices to demands for peaceable accommodation. They 
realize that by acting in concert, rather than individually, they will 
not be picked out as objects of retaliation- economic and 
otherwise.

Since moving from a Chicago suburb to Southern California a 
few months ago, I've been introduced to a new game called Lanesmanship. 
Played mostly on the freeways around Los Angeles, it goes like 
this:   A driver cruising easily at 70 m&p&h& in Lane 
~A of a four-lane freeway spies an incipient traffic jam ahead. Traffic 
in the next lane appears to be moving more smoothly so he pokes 
a tentative fender into Lane ~B, which is heavily populated by cars 
also moving at 70 m&p&h&.   The adjacent driver in Lane 
~B has three choices open to him. He can (1) point his car resolutely 
at the invading fender and force the other driver back into Lane 
~A; (2) slow down and permit the ambivalent driver to change lanes; 
or (3) alternately accelerate and decelerate, thus keeping the 
first driver guessing as to his intentions, thereby making a fascinating 
sport of the whole affair.   The really remarkable thing to 
me is that most California natives unhesitatingly elect to slow down 
and permit the invading car free access. Whether or not this is done 
out of enlightened self-preservation, I don't know. But it is done, 
consistently and I'm both surprised and impressed. #@#

This 
could never happen in my native Chicago. There such soggy acquiesence 
would be looked upon as a sure sign of deteriorating manhood. In 
Chicago, the driver cut out would likely jam his gas pedal to the floor 
in an effort to force the other car back. Failing this, he would pull 
alongside at the first opportunity and shake his fist threateningly.

This negative explanation of courtesy on the freeways, however, 
does an injustice to Southern California drivers. At the risk 
of losing my charge-a-plate at Marshall Field and Company, I would 
like to challenge an old and hallowed stereotype. After three months 
of research, I can state unequivocally that Los Angeles drivers are 
considerably more courteous and competent than any other drivers I've 
ever encountered.   During one recent day of driving about Los 
Angeles there were actually a dozen occasions when oncoming drivers 
stopped an entire lane of traffic to permit me to pull out of an impossible 
side street. 

_MIAMI, FLA&, MARCH 17._ An out-of-town writer came up to Paul 
Richards today and asked the Oriole manager if he thought his ball 
club would be improved this year.   Now Richards, of course, is 
known as a deep thinker as baseball managers go. He can often make the 
complex ridiculously simple, and vice versa. This happened to be 
vice versa, but even so, the answer 
was a masterpiece.   "It's a whole lot easier", he said, 
"to increase the population of Nevada, than it is to increase the 
population of New York city". And with that he walked off to give 
instruction to a rookie pitcher.   "That is undoubtedly a hell 
of a quote", said the writer, scratching his head. "Now, if I 
can just figure out what he's talking about, I'll use it". 

#TWO 
SPOTS OPEN#

This was just Richard's way of saying that last 
year the Birds opened spring training with a lot of jobs wide open. 
Some brilliant rookies nailed them down, so that this spring just two 
spots, left and right field, are really up for grabs.   It should 
be easier to plug two spots than it was to fill the wholesale lots 
that were open last year, but so far it hasn't worked that way.

This angle of just where the Orioles can look for improvement this 
year is an interesting one. You'd never guess it from the way they've 
played so far this spring, but there remains a feeling among some 
around here that the Orioles still have a chance to battle for the 
pennant in 1961.   Obviously, if this club is going to move from 
second to first in the American League, it will have to show improvement 
someplace. Where can that improvement possibly come from?

You certainly can't expect the infield to do any better than 
it did last year. 

#ROBBY COULD BE BETTER#

Brooks Robinson is great, 
and it is conceivable that he'll do even better in 1961 than he 
did in 1960. You can't expect it, though. Robby's performance last 
year was tremendous.   It's the same with Ron Hansen and 
jim Gentile. If they do as well as they did in 1960 there can be no 
complaint. They shouldn't be asked to carry any more of the burden.

Hansen will be getting a late spring training start, which might 
very well set him back. He got off to an exceptional start last season, 
and under the circumstances probably won't duplicate it.

There are some clubs which claim they learned something about pitching 
to him last year. They don't expect to stop him, just slow him 
down some with the bat. He'll still be a top player, they concede, 
because he's got a great glove and the long ball going for him. But 
they expect to reduce his over-all offensive production. 

#BREEDING 
MIGHT MOVE UP#

Gentile can hardly do better than drive in 98 runs. 
Don't ask him more.   I have a hunch Marv Breeding might move 
up a notch. But even so, he had a good year in 1960 and won't do 
too much better.   So, all in all, the infield can't be expected 
to supply the added improvement to propel the Birds from second 
to first.   And the pitching will also have trouble doing better. 
Richards got a great performance out of his combination of youth and 
experience last season.   Where, then, can we look for improvement?

"From Triandos, Brandt and Walker", answers Richards. 
"They're the ones we can expect to do better".   The 
man is right, and at this time, indications are that these three are 
ready for better seasons.   Triandos hasn't proved it yet, but 
he says he's convinced his thumb is all right. He jammed it this 
spring and has had to rest it, but he says the old injury hasn't bothered 
him. If he can bounce back with one of those 25 home runs years, 
the club will have to be better off offensively.   I'm still 
not convinced, though, I'll have to see more of him before predicting 
that big year for him. Hank Foiles, backed up by Frank House 
who will be within calling distance in the minors, make up better second 
line catching than the Birds had all last year, but Gus is still 
that big man you need when you start talking pennant.   To me, 
Brandt 
looks as though he could be in for a fine year. He hasn't played 
too much, because Richards has been working on him furiously in batting 
practice. He's hitting the ball hard, in the batting cage, and 
his whole attitude is improved over this time last year.   When 
he came to Baltimore, he was leaving a team which was supposed to win 
the National League pennant, and he was joining what seemed to be 
a second division American League club. He was down, hard to talk 
to, 
and far too nonchalant on the field. As of now, that all seems behind 
him. He's been entirely different all spring.   And Walker 
looks stronger, seems to be throwing better than he did last year. Let 
him bounce back, and he could really set up the staff.   So, 
if the Orioles are to improve, Brandt, Triandos and Walker will have 
to do it.   So far the platoons on left and right fielders don't 
seem capable of carrying the load.   Of course, this isn't 
taking into consideration the population of Nevada and New York 
city, but it's the way things look from here at this point.

Is the mother of an "autistic" child at fault? (The "autistic" 
child is one who seems to lack a well-defined sense of self. 
He tends to treat himself and other people as if they were objects- 
and sometimes he treats objects as if they were people.) Did his 
mother make him this way?   Some people believe she did.

We think differently. We believe that autism, like so many other conditions 
of defect and deviation, is to a large extent inborn. A mother 
can help a child adapt to his difficulties.   Sometimes she 
can- to a large extent- help him overcome them. But we don't think 
she creates them. We don't think she can make her child defective, 
emotionally disturbed or autistic.   The mother of a difficult 
child can do a great deal to help her own child and often, by sharing 
her experiences, she can help other mothers with the same problem. 
Since little is known about autism, and almost nothing has been written 
for the layman, we'd like to share one experienced mother's comments. 
She wrote: 

#TOTAL DISINTEREST#

"As the mother of an autistic 
child who is lacking in interest and enthusiasm about almost anything, 
I have to manipulate my son's fingers for him when he 
first 
plays with a new toy. He wants me to do everything for him.   "You 
don't believe that autistic children become autistic because of 
something that happens to them or because of the way their mother treats 
them. But I do and my psychiatrist does, too. I know, that my 
son wants control and direction, but being autistic myself I cannot give 
full control or direction.   "One thing I notice which I 
have seldom heard mentioned. This is that autistic people don't enjoy 
physical contact with others- for instance, my children and I. 
When I hold my son he stiffens his whole body in my arms until he is 
as straight and stiff as a board. He pushes and straightens himself 
as if he can't stand the feeling of being held. Physical contact is 
uncomforatble for him"!   This mother is quite correct. As 
a rule, the autistic child doesn't enjoy physical contact with others. 
Parents have to find other ways of comforting him. For the young 
child this may be no more than providing food, light or movement. As 
he grows older it may be a matter of providing some accustomed object 
(his "magic" thing). Or certain words or rituals that child and 
adult go through may do the trick. The answer is different for each autistic 
child, but for most there is an answer. Only ingenuity will uncover 
it. 

#WHAT FUTURE HOLDS#

"Dear Doctors: We learned this 
year that our older son, Daniel, is autistic. We did not accept the 
diagnosis at once, but gradually we are coming to. Fortunately, there 
is a nursery school which he has been able to attend, with a group 
of normal children.   "I try to treat Daniel as if he were normal, 
though of course I realize he is far from that at present. What 
I do is to try to bring him into contact with reality as much as possible. 
I try to give him as many normal experiences as possible.

"What is your experience with autistic children? How do they 
turn out later"?   Many autistic children grow up to lead 
relatively normal lives. Certainly, most continue to lack a certain warmth 
in communication with other people, but many adjust to school, even 
college, to jobs and even to marriage and parenthood. 

#SINGLE-COLOR 
USE# 


_QUESTION_- <A first grader colors pictures one solid color, 
everything- sky, grass, boy, wagon, etc&. When different colors 
are used, she is just as likely to color trees purple, hair green, 
etc&>.   <The other children in the class use this same coloring 
book and do a fairly good job with things their proper color. Should 
I show my daughter how things should be colored? She is an aggressive, 
nervous child. Is a relaxed home atmosphere enough to help 
her outgrow these traits?> _ANSWER_- Her choice of one color 
means she is simply enjoying the motor act of coloring, without having 
reached the point of selecting suitable colors for different objects. 
This immature use of crayons may suggest that she is a little immature 
for the first grade.   No, coloring isn't exactly something 
you teach a child. You sometimes give them a little demonstration, 
a little guidance, and suggestions about staying inside the lines. But 
most learn to color and paint as and when they are ready with only 
a very little demonstration.

SEEN in decorating circles of late is a renewed interest 
in an old art: embroidery. Possibly responsible for this is the incoming 
trend toward multicolor schemes in rooms, which seems slated to 
replace the one-color look to which we have been accustomed. Just as 
a varitinted Oriental rug may suggest the starting point for a room scheme, 
so may some of the newest versions of embroidery.   One such, 
in fact, is a rug. Though not actually crewel embroidery, it has 
that look with its over-stitched raised pattern in blue, pink, bronze 
and gold and a sauterne background. The twirled, stylized design of 
winding stems and floral forms strongly suggests the embroidered patterns 
used so extensively for upholstery during the Jacobean period in 
England.   Traditional crewel embroidery which seems to be appearing 
more frequently this fall than in the past few years is still available 
in this country. The work is executed in England (by hand) and 
can be worked in any desired design and color.   Among some recent 
imports were seat covers for one series of dining room chairs on 
which were depicted salad plates overflowing with tomatoes and greens 
and another set on which a pineapple was worked in naturalistic color. 

#CHINESE INFLUENCE#

For a particularly fabulous room which houses 
a collection of fine English Chippendale furniture, fabric wall panels 
were embroidered with a typically Chinese-inspired design of this 
revered Eighteenth Century period. Since the work is done by hand, 
the only limitation, it is said, "is that of human conception".

Modern embroidered panels, framed and meant to be hung on the 
wall, are another aspect of this trend. These have never gone out of 
style in Scandinavian homes and now seem to be reappearing here and 
there in shops which specialize in handicrafts. An amateur decorator 
might try her hand at a pair during the long winter evenings, and, by 
picking up her living room color scheme, add a decorative do-it-yourself 
note to the room.

California Democrats this weekend will take the wraps off a 1962 
model statewide campaign vehicle which they have been quietly assembling 
in a thousand district headquarters, party clubrooms and workers' 
backyards.   They seem darned proud of it.   And they're 
confident that the ~GOP, currently assailed by dissensions 
within the ranks, will be impressed by the purring power beneath the hood 
of this grassroots-fueled machine. #@#

Their meeting at San 
Francisco is nominally scheduled as a conference of the California 
Democratic Council directorate. But it will include 200-odd officeholders, 
organization leaders and "interested party people".

Out of this session may come: _1_- Plans for a dramatic, 
broad-scale party rally in Los Angeles next December that would enlist 
top-drawer Democrats from all over the country. _2_- Blueprints 
for doubling the ~CDC's present 55,000 enrollment. _3_- 
Arrangements for a statewide pre-primary endorsing convention in 
Fresno next Jan& 26-28. _4_- And proposals for a whole series 
of lesser candidate-picking conventions in the state's 38 new Congressional 
districts.   At the head of the ~CDC is an unorthodox, 
39-year-old amateur politico, Thomas B& Carvey Jr&, 
whose normal profession is helping develop Hughes Aircraft's moon 
missiles. He's approached his Democratic duties in hard-nosed engineering 
fashion. #@#

Viewed from afar, the ~CDC looks like 
a rather stalwart political pyramid: its elected directorate fans out 
into an array of district leaders and standing committees, and thence 
into its component clubs and affiliated groups- 500 or so. 
Much of its strength stems from the comfortable knowledge that every 
"volunteer" Democratic organization of any consequence belongs to 
the ~CDC. #@#

Moreover, the entire state Democratic hierarchy, 
from Gov& Brown on down to the county chairmen, also participates 
in this huge operation.   Contrarily, Republican "volunteers" 
go their separate ways, and thus far have given no indication 
that they'd be willing to join forces under a single directorate, 
except in the most loose-knit fashion.   Carvey believes that 
reapportionment, 
which left many Democratic clubs split by these new district 
boundaries, actually will increase ~CDC membership. Where 
only one club existed before, he says, two will flourish henceforth.

Biggest organizational problem, he adds, is setting up ~CDC 
units in rock-ribbed Democratic territory. Paradoxically the council 
is weakest in areas that register 4- and 5-to-1 in the party's 
favor, strongest where Democrats and Republicans compete on a fairly 
even basis.   Like most Democratic spokesmen, Carvey predicts 
1962 will be a tremendously "partisan year". Hence the attention 
they're lavishing on the ~CDC.   In all probability, the 
council will screen and endorse candidates for the Assembly and for 
Congress, and then strive to put its full weight behind these pre-primary 
favorites. This bodes heated contests in several districts where 
claims have already been staked out by Democratic hopefuls who don't 
see eye-to-eye with the ~CDC.   Naturally, the statewide 
races will provide the major test for the expanding council.   Shunted 
aside by the rampant organizers for John F& Kennedy last 
year, who relegated it to a somewhat subordinate role in the Presidential 
campaign, the ~CDC plainly intends to provide the party's 
campaign muscle in 1962. There is evidence that it will be happily received 
by Gov& Brown and the other constitutional incumbents. #@# 

Carvey considers that former Vice President Nixon would be Brown's 
most formidable foe, with ex-Gov& Knight a close second. 
But the rest of the ~GOP gubernatorial aspirants don't worry 
him very much.   In his ~CDC work, Carvey has the close-in 
support and advice of one of California's shrewdest political strategists: 
former Democratic National Committeeman Paul Ziffren, 
who backed him over a Northland candidate espoused by Atty& Gen& 
Stanley Mosk. (Significantly, bitter echoes of the 1960 power struggle 
that saw Mosk moving into the national committee post over Ziffren 
are still audible in party circles.) #@#

NOTE: We've 
just received an announcement of the 54th Assembly district post-reapportionment 
organizing convention Wednesday night in South 
Pasadena's War Memorial Bldg&, which graphically illustrates the 
~CDC's broad appeal. State Sen& Dick Richards will keynote; 
state and county 
committeemen, ~CDC directors and representatives, 
members of 16 area clubs, and "all residents" have been invited.

This is going to be a language lesson, and you can master it in 
a few minutes. It is a short course in Communese.   It works 
with English, Russian, German, Hungarian or almost any other foreign 
tongue. Once you learn how to translate Communese, much of each 
day's deluge of news will become clearer. At least, I have found it 
so. #@#

For some compulsive reason which would have fascinated 
Dr& Freud, Communists of all shapes and sizes almost invariably 
impute to others the very motives which they harbor themselves. They 
accuse their enemies of precisely the crimes of which they themselves 
are most guilty.   President Kennedy's latest warning to the 
Communist world that the United States will build up its military 
strength to meet any challenge in Berlin or elsewhere was somewhat surprisingly, 
reported in full text or fairly accurate excerpts behind the 
Iron Curtain. Then the Communese reply came back from many mouthpieces 
with striking consistency.   Now listen closely: 
Moscow radio from the Literary Gazette in English to England: 
#@#

"President Kennedy once again interpreted the Soviet proposals, 
to sign a peace treaty with Germany as a threat, as part of 
the world menace allegedly looming over the countries of capitalism. Evidently 
the war drum beating and hysteria so painstakingly being stirred 
up in the West have been planned long in advance. The West Berlin 
crisis is being played up artificially because it is needed by the 
United States to justify its arms drive".   The Soviet news 
agency ~TASS datelined from New York in English to Europe:

"President Kennedy's enlargement of the American military 
program was welcomed on Wall Street as a stimulus to the American 
munitions industry. When the stock exchange opened this morning, 
many dealers were quick to purchase shares in Douglas, Lockheed and 
United Aircraft and prices rose substantially. Over 4 million shares 
were sold, the highest figures since early June. (Quotations follow".)

~TASS datelined Los Angeles, in English to Europe:

"Former Vice President Nixon came out in support of 
President Kennedy's program for stepping up the arms race. He also 
demanded that Kennedy take additional measures to increase international 
tension: specifically to crush the Cuban revolution, resume 
nuclear testing, resist more vigorously admission of China to its lawful 
seat in the United Nations, and postpone non-military programs at 
home".   ~TASS from Moscow in English to Europe:

"The American press clamored for many days promising President 
Kennedy would reply to the most vital domestic and foreign problems 
confronting the United States. In fact, the world heard nothing 
but sabre-rattling, the same exercises which proved futile for the 
predecessors of the current President. If there were no West Berlin 
problem, imperialist quarters would have invented an excuse for stepping 
up the armaments race to try to solve the internal and external problems 
besetting the United States and its ~NATO partners. Washington 
apparently decided to use an old formula, by injecting large 
military appropriations to speed the slow revival of the U&S& economy 
after a prolonged slump". #@#

And now, for Communist 
listeners and readers:   Moscow Radio in Russian to the ~USSR:

"The U&S& President has shown once again that 
the United States needs the fanning of the West Berlin crisis 
to justify the armaments race. As was to be expected Kennedy's latest 
speech was greeted with enthusiasm by revenge-seeking circles in Bonn, 
where officials of the West German government praised it".

Moscow Novosti article in Russian, datelined London:

"U&S& pressure on Britain to foster war hysteria over the status 
of West Berlin has reached its apogee. British common sense is 
proverbial. The present attempts of the politicians to contaminate 
ordinary Britons shows that this British common sense is unwilling to 
pull somebody else's chestnuts out of the fire by new military adventures". 
#@#

East Berlin (Communist) radio in German to Germany:

"A better position for negotiations is the real point 
of this speech. Kennedy knows the West will not wage war for West 
Berlin, neither conventional nor nuclear, and negotiations will come 
as certainly as the peace treaty. Whenever some Washington circles 
were really ready for talks to eliminate friction they have always 
succumbed to pressure from the war clique in the Pentagon and in Bonn. 
In Kennedy's speech are cross currents, sensible ones and senseless 
ones, reflecting the great struggle of opinions between the President's 
advisers and the political and economic forces behind them. 
Well, dear listeners, despite all the shouting, there will be no war 
over West Berlin".   Moscow ~TASS in Russian datelined 
Sochi:   "Chairman Khrushchev received the U&S& President's 
disarmament adviser, John McCloy. Their conversation 
and dinner passed in a warm and friendly atmosphere".   Now, 
to translate from the Communese, this means:   The "West Berlin" 
crisis is really an East Berlin crisis. #@#

The crisis 
was artificially stirred up by the Kremlin (Wall Street) and the 
Red Army (Pentagon) egged on by the West Germans (East Germans).

The reason was to speed up domestic production in the ~USSR, 
which Khrushchev promised upon grabbing power, and try to end 
the permanent recession in Russian living standards.   Chairman 
Khrushchev (Kennedy) rattles his rockets (sabre) in order to cure 
his internal ills and to strengthen his negotiating position. His advisers 
in the Politburo (White House) are engaged in a great struggle 
of opinions, so he is not always consistent.   The Soviet Union 
will fight neither a conventional nor a nuclear war over Berlin, 
and neither will its Warsaw Pact allies. The West has no intention 
of attacking Russia.   Chairman Khrushchev and John McCloy 
had a terrible row at Sochi.   See, Communese is easy- once 
you get onto it.

Aug& 4, 1821, nearly a century after Benjamin Franklin founded 
the Pennsylvania Gazette- a century during which it had undergone 
several changes in ownership and a few brief suspensions in publication- 
this paper made its first appearance as the Saturday Evening 
Post. The country was now full of Gazettes and Samuel C& Atkinson 
and Charles Alexander, who had just taken over Franklin's 
old paper, desired a more distinctive name.   When founded by Franklin 
the Gazette was a weekly family newspaper and under its new name 
its format remained that of a newspaper but its columns gradually 
contained more and more fiction, poetry, and literary essays. In the 
middle of the century, with a circulation of 90,000, the Post was one 
of the most popular weeklies in the country. But during the second half 
of the century its fortunes reached a low point and when in 1897 Cyrus 
H& K& Curtis purchased it- "paper, type, and all"- 
for $1,000 it was a 16-page weekly filled with unsigned fiction and 
initialed miscellany, and with only some 2,000 subscribers.   Little 
more than a fine old name, valuable principally because of the 
Franklin tradition, the Saturday Evening Post was slow to revive. 
But Curtis poured over $1 million into it and in time it again became 
one of the most popular weeklies of the country.

"Remember the French railroad baron who was going to take me 
floating down the Nile"? **h "Remember the night Will Rogers 
filled a tooth for me between numbers"? **h "Sure, we met a 
barrel of rich men but it's hard to find the real thing when you're 
young, beautiful and the toast of two continents" **h "Remember 
Fanny Brice promised my mother she would look after me on the road"?

All this remembering took place the other night when I 
had supper with the Ziegfeld Girls at the Beverly Hills Club.

A quarter of a century has gone by since this bevy of walking dreams 
sashayed up and down the staircases of the old New Amsterdam Theater, 
N&Y&. But watching Mrs& Cyril Ring, Berniece Dalton 
Janssen, Mrs& Robert Jarvis, Mrs& Walter Adams order low-calory 
seafood, no bread, I could see the Ziegfeld Girls of 1920 
were determined to be glamorous grandmothers of 1961.   I was 
anxious to hear about those dazzling days on the Great White Way. All 
I could remember was Billie Dove pasted over the ceiling of my 
big brother's room.   "Billie was really beautiful"! exclaimed 
Vera Forbes Adams, batting lovely big eyes behind glitter rimmed 
glasses.

SING SING'S prisoner strike was motivated by a reasonable 
purpose, a fair break from parole boards. But once the strike trend 
hits hoosegows, there is no telling how far it may go. Inmates might 
even demand the 34-hour week, all holidays off and fringe benefits including 
state contributions toward lawyers' fees. Some day we might 
see a Federation of Prison and Jail Inmates, with a leader busily 
trying to organize reformatory occupants, defendants out on bail, convicts 
opposed to probation officers, etc&. _@_ A three-day confinement 
week, with a month's vacation and shorter hours all around 
could be an ultimate demand from cell occupants of the nation, with 
fringe benefits including: _1._ Wider space between iron bars 
and agreement by prison boards to substitute rubber in 20 per cent of 
metal. _2._ An agreement allowing convicts to pass on type of locks 
used on prison doors. In case of a deadlock between prison boards 
and inmates, a federal arbitration board to include a "lifer" and 
two escapees should decide the issue. _3._ Specific broadening of 
travel rights. _4._ The right to leave the hoosegow any time to 
see a lawyer instead of waiting for a lawyer to make a trip to the prison. 

_5._ Recognition of Prisoners Union rule that no member of 
an iron or steel workers union be permitted to repair a sawed-off bar 
without approval and participation of representative of the cell occupant. 

_6._ No warden or guard to touch lock, key or doorknob except 
when accompanied by a prisoners' committee with powers of veto. 

_7._ State and federal approval of right to walk out at any time 
when so voted by 51 per cent of the prisoners. #@#

The death of 
Harold A& Stevens, oldest of the Stevens brothers, famed operators 
of baseball, football and race track concessions, revived again the 
story of one of the greatest business successes in history. Harold, 
with brothers Frank, Joe and William, took over at the death of their 
father, Harry M& Stevens, who put a few dollars into a baseball 
program, introduced the "hot dog" and paved the way for creation 
of a catering empire. Family loyalties and cooperative work have been 
unbroken for generations. #@#

~IBM has a machine that can 
understand spoken words and talk back. Nevertheless, it will seem 
funny to have to send for a mechanic to improve conversation. #@# 

Rembrandt's "Aristotle Contemplating Bust of Homer" brought 
$2,300,000 at auction the other night. Both Aristotle and Homer 
may in spirit be contemplating "bust" of the old-fashioned American 
dollar. #@#

The owner of the painting got it for $750,000, 
sold it for $500,000 in a market crash, and bought it back for $590,000. 
Apologies are in order from anybody who said "Are you sure you're 
not making a mistake"? #@#

"Wagon Train" is reported 
the No& 1 ~TV show. After all, where else can the public see 
a wagon these days? #@#

Lucius Beebe's book, "Mr& 
Pullman's Elegant Palace Car", fills us with nostalgia, recalling 
days when private cars and Pullmans were extra wonderful, with fine 
woodwork, craftsmanship in construction, deep carpets and durable upholstery. 
Beebe tells of one private car that has gold plumbing. Jay 
Gould kept a cow on one de luxer. 

_WASHINGTON_- Rep& Frelinghuysen, ~R-5th Dist&, had a 
special reason for attending the reception at the Korean Embassy for 
Gen& Chung Hee Park, the new leader of South Korea.   Not 
only is Mr& Frelinghuysen a member of the House Foreign Affairs 
Committee, but he is the grandson of the man who was instrumental 
in opening relations between the United States and Korea, Frederick 
T& Frelinghuysen, secretary of state in the administration of Chester 
A& Arthur. In addition Rep& Frelinghuysen's brother 
Harry was on the Korean desk of the State Department in World War 
/2,.   Next year is the 80th anniversary of the signing of 
the treaty between Korea and the United States and experts in Seoul 
are trying to find the correspondence between Frederick Frelinghuysen, 
who was secretary of state in 1883 and 1884, and Gen& Lucius 
Foote, who was the first minister to Korea.   They enlisted the 
help of the New Jersey congressman, who has been able to trace the 
letters to the national archives, where they are available on microfilm. 

#ON THE JOB#

A top official of the New Frontier who kept a 
record of his first weeks on the job here gives this report of his experiences:

In his first six weeks in office he presided over 
96 conferences, attended 35 official breakfasts and dinners, studied 
and signed 285 official papers and personally took 312 telephone calls.

In addition, he said, he has answered more than 400 messages 
of congratulations which led him to the comment that he himself had decided 
he wouldn't send another congratulatory message for the rest 
of his life. _@_ Sen& Case ~R-N&J&, has received a 
nice "thank you" note from a youngster he appointed to the Air Force 
Academy in Colorado.   Air Force life is great, the cadet 
wrote, "though the fourth-class system is no fun". He invited Mr& 
Case to stop by to say hello if he ever visited the academy and 
then added that he was on the managerial staff of the freshman football 
team   "We have just returned from Roswell, N&M&, where 
we were defeated, 34 to 9", the young man noted. "We have a 
tremendous amount of talent- but we lack cohesion". @ 

#KIND MR& 
SAM#

Among the many stories about the late Speaker Rayburn is 
one from Rep& Dwyer, ~R-6th Dist&. Mrs& Dwyer's husband, 
M& Joseph Dwyer, was taking a 10-year-old boy from Union County 
on the tour of the Capitol during the final weeks of the last session. 
They ran across Mr& Rayburn and the youngster expressed a 
desire to get the Speaker's autograph.   Mr& Dwyer said that 
although it was obvious that Mr& Rayburn was not well he stopped, 
gave the youngster his autograph, asked where he was from and expressed 
the hope that he would enjoy his visit to Congress.   Two 
days later Mr& Rayburn left Washington for the last time.

THE 350th anniversary of the King James Bible is being 
celebrated simultaneously with the publishing today of the New Testament, 
the first part of the New English Bible, undertaken as a new 
translation of the Scriptures into contemporary English.   Since 
it was issued in the spring of 1611, the King James Version has 
been most generally considered the most poetic and beautiful of all translations 
of the Bible. However, Biblical scholars frequently attested 
to its numerous inaccuracies, as old manuscripts were uncovered 
and scholarship advanced.   This resulted in revisions of the King 
James Bible in 1881-85 as the English Revised Version and in 
1901 as the American Standard Version. Then in 1937 America's 
International Council of Religious Education authorized a new revision, 
in the light of expanded knowledge of ancient manuscripts and languages. 
Undertaken by 32 American scholars, under the chairmanship 
of Rev& Dr& Luther A& Weigle, former dean of Yale University 
Divinity School, their studies resulted in the publishing of the 
Revised Standard Version, 1946-52. 

#NOT RIVAL#

The New English 
Bible (the Old Testament and Apocrypha will be published at a 
future date) has not been planned to rival or replace the King James 
Version, but, as its cover states, it is offered "simply as the Bible 
to all those who will use it in reading, teaching, or worship".

Time, of course will testify whether the new version will have 
achieved its purpose. Bible reading, even more so than good classical 
music, grows in depth and meaning upon repetition.   If this 
new Bible does not increase in significance by repeated readings throughout 
the years, it will not survive the ages as has the King James 
Version.   However, an initial perusal and comparison of some 
of the famous passages with the same parts of other versions seems to 
speak well of the efforts of the British Biblical scholars. One is 
impressed with the dignity, clarity and beauty of this new translation 
into contemporary English, and there is no doubt that the meaning of 
the Bible is more easily understandable to the general reader in contemporary 
language than in the frequently 
archaic words and phrases of the 
King James.   For example, in the third chapter of Matthew, verses 
13-16, describing the baptism of Jesus, the 1611 version reads:

"Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John, 
to be baptized of him.   "But John forbad him, saying, I have 
need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?   "And 
Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now: for thus it 
becometh us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he suffered him.

"And Jesus, when he was baptized went up straightway out of the 
water: and lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit 
of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him". 

#CLEARER 
MEANING#

Certainly, the meaning is clearer to one who is not 
familiar with Biblical teachings, in the New English Bible which reads: 
"Then Jesus arrived at Jordan from Galilee, and he came 
to John to be baptized by him. John tried to dissuade him. 'Do you 
come to me'? he said; 'I need rather to be baptized by you'. 
Jesus replied, 'let it be so for the present; we do well to 
conform this way with all that God requires'. John then allowed him 
to come. After baptism Jesus came up out of the water at once, and 
at that moment heaven opened; he saw the Spirit of God descending 
like a dove to alight upon him";   (the paragraphing, spelling 
and punctuation are reproduced as printed in each version.) 
Among the most frequently quoted Biblical sentences are the Beatitudes 
and yet so few persons, other than scholars, really understand the 
true meaning of these eight blessings uttered by Jesus at the beginning 
of the Sermon on the Mount.   To illustrate, the first blessing 
in the King James Bible reads: "Blessed are the poor in 
spirit; for their's is the kingdom of heaven". The new version 
states: "How blest are those who know that they are poor; the 
kingdom of Heaven is theirs".   Some of the poetic cadence of 
the older version certainly is lost in the newer one, but almost anyone, 
with a fair knowledge of the English language, can understand the 
meaning, without the necessity of interpretation by a Biblical scholar. 
To a novice 
that is significant.   In the second and third 
chapters of Revelation the new version retains, however, the old phrase 
"angel of the church" which Biblical scholars have previously 
interpreted as meaning bishop. This is not contemporary English. 

#MOSTLY 
CONTEMPORARY#

For the most part, however, the new version is 
contemporary and, as such, should be the means for many to attain a 
clearer comprehension of the meaning of those words recorded so many hundreds 
of years ago by the first followers of Christ.   Originally 
recorded by hand, these words have been copied and recopied, translated 
and retranslated through the ages. Discoveries recently made of 
old Biblical manuscripts in Hebrew and Greek and other ancient writings, 
some by the early church fathers, in themselves called for a restudy 
of the Bible. To have the results recorded in everyday usable 
English should be of benefit to all who seek the truth.   There 
is one danger, however. With contemporary English changing with the 
rapidity that marks this jet age, some of the words and phrases of the 
new version may themselves soon become archaic. The only answer will 
be continuous study.   The New Testament offered to the public 
today is the first result of the work of a joint committee made up 
of representatives of the Church of England, Church of Scotland, 
Methodist Church, Congregational Union, Baptist Union, Presbyterian 
Church of England, Churches in Wales, Churches in Ireland, 
Society of Friends, British and Foreign Bible Society and National 
Society of Scotland.   Prof& C& H& Dodd, 76, a Congregational 
minister and a leading authority on the New Testament, 
is general director of the project and chairman of the New Testament 
panel.

Sizzling temperatures and hot summer pavements are anything but 
kind to the feet. That is why it is important to invest in comfortable, 
airy types of shoes.   There are many soft and light shoe 
leathers available. Many styles have perforations and an almost weightlessness 
achieved via unlined leathers. Softness is found in crushed 
textures.   Styles run the gamut from slender and tapered with 
elongated toes to a newer squared toe shape. Heels place emphasis on 
the 
long legged silhouette. Wine glass heels are to be found in both high 
and semi-heights. Stacked heels are also popular on dressy or tailored 
shoes. Just the barest suggestion of a heel is found on teenage 
pumps. 

#COOLEST SHADE#

While white is the coolest summer shade, 
there are lots of pastel hues along with tintable fabrics that will blend 
with any wardrobe color.   In the tintable group are high and 
little heels, squared and oval throats, and shantung-like textures.

Don't overlook the straws this year. They come in crisp basket 
weaves in natural honey hues, along with lacey open weaves with a 
lustre finish in natural, white, black and a whole range of colors. In 
the casual field straws feature wedge heels of cork or carved wood in 
a variety of styles. For added comfort some of the Italian designed 
sandals have foam padded cushioning.   The citrus tones popular 
in clothing are also to be found afoot. Orange and lemon are considered 
important as are such pastels as blue and lilac. In a brighter nautical 
vein is Ille de France blue. Contrast trim provides other touches 
of color. Spectators in white crush textures dip toe and heel 
in smooth black, navy and taffy tan. 

#DESIGNED FOR EASE#

Designed 
for summer comfort are the shoes illustrated. At the left is a pair 
of dressy straw pumps in a light, but crisp texture. In a lacey open 
weave shoes have a luster finish, braided collar and bow highlight on 
the squared throat. At right is a casual style in a crushed unlined 
white leather. Flats have a scalloped throat.

An electric toothbrush (Broxodent) may soon take its place next 
to the electric razor in the American bathroom. The brush moves up 
and down and is small enough to clean every dental surface, including 
the back of the teeth. In addition, the motor has the seal of approval 
of the Underwriters Laboratories, which means it is safe. 
The unit consists of a small motor that goes on as soon as it is plugged 
in. The speed is controlled by pressing on the two brake buttons 
located where the index finger and thumb are placed when holding the 
motor. The bushes can be cleaned and sterilized by boiling and are detachable 
so that every member of the family can have his own. 
Most of us brush our teeth by hand. The same can be said of shaving 
yet the electric razor has proved useful to many men.   The electric 
toothbrush moves in a vertical direction, the way dentists recommend. 
In addition, it is small enough to get into crevices, jacket and 
crown margins, malposed anteriors, and the back teeth. The bristles 
are soft enough to massage the gums and not scratch the enamel.

It is conceivable that Broxodent could do a better job than ordinary 
bushing, especially in those who do not brush their teeth properly. 
Several dentists and patients with special dental problems have experimented 
with the device. The results were good although they are difficult 
to compare with hand brushing, particularly when the individual 
knows how to brush his teeth properly. The electric gadget is most helpful 
when there are many crowned teeth and in individuals who are elderly, 
bedfast with a chronic disease, or are handicapped by disorders 
such as cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy.   But for many of 
us, it will prove an enjoyable luxury. It is not as convenient as the 
old type toothbrush and the paste tends to shimmy of the bristles. Since 
the apparatus is new, it requires experimentation and changes in 
technique. 

#TURN OVER#

@ writes: Does numbness in the left 
hand at night, which awakens the person, indicate brain tumor? _REPLY_ 
No. This is a common symptom and the cause usually is pressure 
on the nerve leading to the affected hand. The pressure may come from 
muscles, tendons, or bones anywhere from the neck to the hand. 

#STEAM 
BATHS#

@ writes: Do steam baths have any health value? 

_REPLY_ No, other than cleaning out the pores and making the sweat 
glands work harder. An ordinary hot bath or shower will do the same. 

#SEWING BRINGS NUMBNESS#

@ writes: What makes my hands numb 
when sewing? _REPLY_ There are many possibilities, including 
poor circulation, a variety of neurological conditions, and functional 
disorders. This manifestation may be an early sign of multiple sclerosis 
or the beginning of sewer's cramp. 

#BRACE FOR SCIATICA#

@ 
writes: Does a brace help in sciatica? _REPLY_ A back brace 
might help, depending upon the cause of sciatica. 

#CHOLESTEROL AND 
THYROID#

@ writes: Does the cholesterol go down when most of 
the thyroid gland is removed? _REPLY_ No. It usually goes up. 
The cholesterol level in the blood is influenced by the glands of the 
body. It is low when the thyroid is overactive and high when the gland 
is sluggish. The latter is likely to occur when the thyroid is removed.

The gap between the bookshelf and the record cabinet grows smaller 
with each new recording catalogue.   There's more reading 
and instruction to be heard on discs than ever before, although the spoken 
rather than the sung word is as old as Thomas Alva Edison's 
first experiment in recorded sound. Edison could hardly have guessed, 
however, that Sophocles would one day appear in stereo.   If 
the record buyer's tastes are somewhat eclectic or even the slightest 
bit esoteric, he will find them satisfied on educational records. And 
he will avoid eye-strain in the process.   Everything from poetry 
to phonetics, history to histrionics, philosophy to party games 
has been adapted to the turntable.   For sheer ambition, take the 
Decca series titled modestly "Wisdom". Volumes One and Two, 
selected from the sound tracks of a television series, contain "conversations 
with the elder wise men of our day".   These sages 
include poet Carl Sandburg, statesman Jawaharlal Nehru and sculptor 
Jacques Lipchitz, in Volume One, and playwright Sean O'Casey, 
David Ben-Gurion, philosopher Bertrand Russell and the late Frank 
Lloyd Wright in the second set. Hugh Downs is heard interviewing 
Wright, for an added prestige fillip.   There's more specialization 
and a narrower purpose in two albums recently issued by Dover 
Publications. Dover "publishes" what the company calls "Listen 
and Learn" productions designed to teach foreign languages. 
Previous presentations have been on French, Spanish, Russian, Italian, 
German and Japanese.   But the firm has recognized the tight 
dollar and the tourist's desire to visit the "smaller, less-traveled 
and relatively inexpensive countries", and is now prepared to 
teach modern Greek and Portuguese through recordings. The respective 
vocabularies "essential for travel" are available in separate 
albums.   Thanks to Spoken Arts Records, history buffs may hear 
Lincoln's "most memorable speeches and letters" in a two-disc 
set, interpreted by Lincoln authority and lecturer Roy P& Basler. 
As a comtemporary bonus, the set includes Carl Sandburg's address 
at a joint session of Congress, delivered on Lincoln's birthday 
two years ago.   For those who "like poetry but never get 
around to reading it", the Library of Congress makes it possible 
for poets to be heard reading their own work. The program was instituted 
in 1940, and releases are available only from the Recording Laboratory 
of the Library of Congress, Washington 25, D& C& A catalogue 
is available on request.   Newest on the list are John 
Ciardi, W& D& Snodgrass, I& A& Richards, Oscar Williams, 
Robert Hillyer, John Hall Wheelock, Stephen Vincent Benet, 
Edwin Muir, John Peal Bishop and Maxwell Bodenheim. Two poets 
are paired on each record, in the order given above.   Decca is 
not the only large commercial company to impart instruction. ~RCA 
Victor has an ambitious and useful project in a stereo series called 
"Adventures in Music", which is an instructional record library 
for elementary schools. Howard Mitchell and the National Symphony 
perform in the first two releases, designed for grades one and two. Teaching 
guides are included with each record.

In an effort to fortify himself against the unforseen upsets sure 
to arise in the future, Herbert A& Leggett, banker-editor of 
the Phoenix "Arizona Progress", reflects upon a few of the depressing 
experiences of the feverish fifties.   One of the roughest 
was the 
~TV quiz shows, which gave him inferiority complexes. Though 
it was a great relief when the big brains on these shows turned out 
to be frauds and phonies, it did irreparable damage to the ego of the 
editor and many another intelligent, well-informed American. 
But the one that upset the financially wise was the professional dancer 
who related in a book how he parlayed his earnings into a $2,000,000 
profit on the stock market. Every man who dabbles in the market to 
make a little easy money on the side and suffers losses could at the time 
hardly face his wife who was wondering how her husband could be so 
dumb. Investors breathed more freely when it was learned that this acrobatic 
dancer had turned magician and was only doing a best seller book 
to make some dough.   People who take us for suckers are like 
the Westerner who had on exhibit his superior marksmanship in the form 
of a number of bull's-eye achievements. The promoter who wanted 
to sign him up for the circus asked him how he was able to do it. His 
answer was simple but honest. He just shot at the board and then drew 
circles around the holes to form a bull's-eye.

One of the obstacles to the easy control of a 2-year-old child 
is a lack of verbal communication. The child understands no. He senses 
his mother's disapproval. But explanations leave him confused and 
unmoved.   If his mother loves him, he clings to that love as 
a ballast. It motivates his behavior. He wants Mommy to think him 
a good boy. He doesn't want her to look frowningly at him, or speak 
to him angrily. This breaks his heart. He wants to be called sweet, 
good, considerate and mother's little helper. But even mother's 
loving attitude will not always prevent misbehavior.   His desires 
are so strong that he needs constant reassurance of his mother's 
love for him and what she expects of him, in order to overcome them. 
His own inner voice, which should tell him what not to do, has not developed. 
It won't develop until he has words with which to clothe it. 
The conscience is non-existent in the 2-year-old.   What can 
a mother do then to prevent misbehavior? She can decrease the number 
of temptations. She can remove all knick-knacks within reach. The 
fewer nos she has to utter the more effective they will be.   She 
should offer substitutes for the temptations which seem overwhelmingly 
desirable to the child. If he can't play with Mommy's magazines, 
he should have some old numbers of his own. If Daddy's books 
are out of bounds his own picture books are not. Toys he has can be 
made to act as substitutes for family temptations such as refrigerator 
and gas stove.   During this precarious period of development the 
mother should continue to influence the growth of the child's conscience. 
She tells him of the consequences of his behavior. If he bites 
a playmate she says, "Danny won't like you". If he snatches 
a toy, she says, "Caroline wants her own truck just as you do".

There is no use trying to "Explain" to a 2-year-old. Actions 
speak louder. Remove temptations. Remove the child from the scene 
of his misbehavior. Substitute approved objects for forbidden ones 
and keep telling him how he is to act. He won't submit to his natural 
desires all the time, and it's Mother's love that is responsible 
for his good behavior.

This is the period during the melancholy days of autumn when universities 
and colleges schedule what they call "Homecoming Day". 
They seek thereby to lure the old grad back to the old scenes.

The football opponent on homecoming is, of course, selected with 
the view that said opponent will have little more chance than did a Christian 
when thrown to one of the emperor's lions. It is true, of 
course, the uncertainties of life being what they are, that as now and 
then the Christian killed the lion, homecoming days have been ruined 
by a visiting team.   Even with all possible precaution, homecomings 
are usually rather cruel and sad, and only the perpetually ebullient 
and the continually optimistic are made happy by them.   More 
often than not, as the Old Grad wanders along the old paths, his 
memory of happy days when he strolled one of the paths with a coed beside 
him becomes an ache and a pain. He can smell again the perfume she 
wore and recall the lilting sound of laughter, and can smell again the 
aroma of autumn- fallen leaves, the wine of cool air, and the nostalgia 
of woodsmoke which blows through all the winds of fall. 

#UNDERGRADUATES# 

It is at precisely such moments that he encounters a couple 
of undergraduates, faces alight, holding hands and talking happily 
as they come along, oblivious of him, or throwing him the most fleeting 
and casual of glances, such as they would give a tethered goat. Usually, 
they titter loudly after they have passed by.   His dream 
goes. He feels, suddenly, the weight of the fat that is on him. His 
bridgework or his plates feel loose and monstrous. His bifocals blur. 
His legs suddenly feel heavy and unaccountably weary, as if he had 
walked for miles, instead of strolling a few hundred yards along the 
old campus paths. Bitterness comes over him and the taste of time is 
like unripe persimmons in his mouth.   It is not much better if 
he meets with old classmates. Too often, unless he hails them, they 
pass him by. He recalls with a wry smile the wit who said, on returning 
from a homecoming reunion, that he would never go again because all 
his class had changed so much they didn't even recognize him.

If they do meet and recognize one another, slap backs and embrace, 
the moment soon is done. After all, when one has asked whatever became 
of old Joe and Charlie **h when one has inquired who it was Sue 
Brown married and where it is they now live **h when questions are asked 
and answered about families and children, and old professors **h when 
the game and its probable outcome has been exhausted **h that does 
it. 

#MIDDLE-AGED SPREAD#

By then one begins to notice the middle-age 
spread; the gray hairs, the eyeglasses, bodies that are too thin 
or too heavy; the fading signs of old beauty; the athlete of by-gone 
years who wears a size 46 suit and puffs 
when he has finished a sentence 
of any length **h then, it is time to break it up and move on.

It is, if anything, worse on the old player **h   He sits 
in the stands and he doesn't like that. Enough of his life was spent 
there on the field for him never to like watching the game as a spectator 
in the crowd. He always feels lonely. A team feels something. 
On a team a man feels he is a part of it and akin to the men next 
to him. In the stands he is lonely and lost, no matter how many are about 
him.   He sits there remembering the tense moment before the 
ball was snapped; the churning of straining feet, the rasp of the 
canvas pants; the smell and feel of hot, wet woolen sleeves across his 
face. He remembers the desperate, panting breath; the long runs 
on the kick-offs; the hard, jolting tackles; the breakthrough; the 
desperate agony of goal-line stands. And so, he squirms with each 
play, remembering his youth.   But it is no use. It is gone.

No matter how often a man goes back to the scenes of his youth and 
strength, they can never be recaptured again.

Since the obvious is not always true, the Republican National 
Committee wisely analyzed its defeat of last autumn and finds that 
it occurred, as suspected, in the larger cities.   Of 40 cities 
with populations of 300,000 and more, Mr& Kennedy carried 26 and Mr& 
Nixon 14. There are eight states in which the largest urban vote 
can be the balance of power in any close election. These are New 
York, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey, Illinois 
and Minnesota. In 1952 Mr& Eisenhower won all but Missouri. 
Yet, in 1960 all eight gave majorities to Mr& Kennedy.

Republican research broke down the vote in Philadelphia. Mr& Nixon, 
despite a very earnest effort to capture the minority groups, failed 
to do so. His visit to Warsaw, Poland, after the Russian journey 
in the summer of 1959 was expected to win the Polish vote which, 
in several cities, is substantial. Yet, the ~GOP breakdown discovered 
that in Philadelphia Mr& Nixon received but 21 per cent of 
the so-called "Polish" vote; 30 per cent of the "Irish" vote, 
and 18 per cent of the "Negro" vote. #'TASK FORCE'# 

A ~GOP "task force' committee will seek to find out how its 
party may win support from the ethnic and minority groups in cities.

The task force might make a start in Washington with Republican 
congressional leaders. These gentlemen already have done the party 
harm by their seeming reluctance to vote aid for the depressed areas 
and by their criticism of Mr& Kennedy for talking about a recession 
and unemployment. This error was compounded by declaring the recession 
to be "a statistical one", and not a reality. The almost six 
million persons without jobs and the two million working part-time do 
not consider themselves and their plight as statistical. They did not 
view the tour of the distressed cities and towns by Secretary of Labor 
Goldberg as politics, which the ~GOP declared it to be. The 
people visited were glad to have a government with heart enough to take 
an interest in their misery.   Senator Mundt's gross distortion 
of President Eisenhower's conversation into a denunciation 
of President Kennedy as too left wing, a statement Mr& Eisenhower 
declared to be entirely false, is another case in point. If the Republicans 
and Southern Democrats join to defeat medical care for the 
old under the Social Security program, they will thereby erect still 
another barrier to ~GOP hopes in the cities. 

#ERRORS REPEATED# 

The present Republican leadership as practiced by Mundt, Goldwater, 
Bridges, Dirksen, et al, is repeating the errors of the party 
leadership of the 1930s. In that decade the partisan zeal to defend Mr& 
Hoover, and the party's failure to anticipate or cope with the 
depression, caused a great majority of Americans to see the Republican 
party as cold and lacking in any sympathy for the problems of human 
beings caught up in the distress and suffering brought on by the economic 
crash.   The Republican party was not lacking in humanity, 
but it permitted its extremely partisan leadership to make it appear 
devoid of any consideration for people in trouble. Farmers called their 
mule-drawn pickup trucks "Hoover carts". Smokers reduced to 
"the makings", spoke of the sack tobacco as "Hoover dust".

One may be sure the present Republican congressional leadership 
hasn't meant to repeat this error. But it is in the process of so 
doing because it apparently gives priority to trying to downgrade John 
F& Kennedy. That this is not good politics is underscored by the 
latest poll figures which show that 72 per cent of the people like 
the way in which the new President is conducting the nation's business.

The most articulate Republicans are those who, in their 
desire to get back at Mr& Kennedy, already have created the image 
of a Republican leadership which is reluctant to assist the distressed 
and the unemployed, and which is even more unwilling to help old people 
who need medical care. If they also defeat the school bill, the 
~GOP task force won't have much research to do. It will early 
know why the party won't win back city votes.

The 1962 General Assembly has important business to consider. 
The tragedy is that it will not be able to transact that business in 
any responsible manner.   After the Griffin-Byrd political troup 
has completed the circuit in November in the name of a Pre-Legislative 
Forum, this is going to be the most politically oriented Legislature 
in history.   Every legislator from Brasstown Bald to 
Folkston is going to have his every vote subjected to the closest scrutiny 
as a test of his political allegiances, not his convictions.

Hoped-for legislative action on adjustment of the county unit system 
stands less chance than ever. And just how far can the Legislature 
go toward setting up a self-insurance system for the state in the 
midst of a governor's race"?   How unpartisan will be the 
recommendations 
of Lt& Gov& Garland Byrd's Senate Committee 
on Government Operations?   The situation already was bad because 
the Legislature moved the governor's race forward a few months, 
causing the campaigning to get started earlier than usual.   But 
when former Gov& Marvin Griffin and Lt& Gov& Byrd accepted 
the invitations of the Georgia State Chamber of Commerce to join 
the tour next November, the situation was aggravated.   Neither 
had a choice other than to accept the invitation. To have refused 
would have been political suicide. And it may be that one or both men 
actually welcomed the opportunity, when the bravado comments are cast 
aside.   The Georgia State Chamber of Commerce tried to guard 
against the danger of eliminating potential candidates. It wanted 
the State Democratic Executive Committee to pick the "serious 
candidates".   But State Party Chairman James Gray of Albany 
said no, and he didn't mince any words. "They are just asking 
too much", he said. We can't think of anyone else who would want 
to separate serious candidates from other candidates, either.

There are other dangers:   Politics is an accelerating game. 
"If an opponent accuses you of lying, don't deny it. Say he is 
a horse thief", runs an old adage.   These men are spenders. 
If either one ever started making promises, there is no telling where 
the promises would end. Griffin's Rural Roads Authority and Byrd's 
60,000 miles of county contracts would look like pauper's oaths.

The trouble is that at first glance the idea looks like such 
a good one. Why not have them travel the state in November debating? 
It would present a forum for them in almost every community.

But further thought brings the shuddery visions of a governor's 
race being run in the next Legislature, the spectre of big spending 
programs, the ooze of mudslinging before the campaign should even begin. 
There isa way out of this. The Chamber has not arranged a pre-legislative 
forum. It has arranged a campaign for governor.   If 
it will simply delay the debates until the qualifications are closed 
next spring, and then carry all the candidates on a tour of debates, 
it can provide a service to the state.   But the Legislature should 
be granted the opportunity to compelte its work before choosing 
up sides for the race.

Former British Prime Minister Attlee says Eisenhower was 
not a 
"great soldier". Ike's somewhat like George Washington. 
Both won a pretty fair-sized war with a modest assist from British strategy.

Congressmen returning from recess say the people admire 
President Kennedy so much, they're even willing to heed his call 
to sacrifice- and give up his program.   Slogan of the John 
Birch Society: "Paddle your own canoe. The guy who makes the 
motor boats may be a Communist".   A Republican survey says 
Kennedy 
won the '60 election on the religious issue. Too many people were 
afraid if the ~GOP won, they'd have to spend all their time praying.

The Providence Journal editorial (Jan& 25) entitled "East 
Greenwich Faces a Housing Development Problem" points to a 
dilemma that faces communities such as ours. Your suggested solution, 
it seems to me, is grossly oversimplified and is inconsistent with your 
generally realistic attitude toward, and endorsement of, sound planning.

First of all there is ample area in East Greenwich already 
zoned in the classification similar to that which petitioner requested. 
This land is in various stages of development in several locations 
throughout the town. The demand for these lots can be met for some 
time to come. This would seem to indicate that we are trying neither 
"to halt an influx of migrants" nor are we "setting up such standards 
for development that only the well-to-do could afford to buy 
land and build in the new sites".   What we are attempting to 
do is achieve and maintain a balance between medium density and low density 
residential areas and industrial and commercial development. It 
is in fact entirely consistent with your suggestion of modest industrial 
development to help pay governmental costs. Bostitch, Inc& is 
approximately half way through a 10-year exemption of their real estate 
tax. The wisdom of granting such tax exemptions is another matter, 
but this particular instance is, in my opinion, completely satisfactory. 
The 1960 tax book for East Greenwich indicates a valuation for this 
property in excess of two million dollars. With our current $3 per 
hundred tax rate, it is safe to assume that this will qualify when you 
suggest a community should "try to develop a modest industrial plant" 
as the best way to meet these problems.   In order to attract 
additional industry that is compatible with this community it is 
all the more important to present to the industrial prospect an orderly 
balance in the tax structure. As this tax base grows so then can your 
medium and low density residential areas grow. Mr& Richard Preston, 
executive director of the New Hampshire State Planning and 
Development Commission, in his remarks to the Governors Conference 
on Industrial Development at Providence on October 8, 1960, warned 
against the fallacy of attempting to attract industry solely to reduce 
the tax rate or to underwrite municipal services such as schools when 
he said: "If this is the fundamental reason for a community's 
interest or if this is the basic approach, success if any will be difficult 
to obtain". He went on to say: "In the first place, industry 
per se is not dedicated to the role of savior of foundering municipalities. 
It is not in business for the purpose of absorbing increased 
municipal costs no matter how high a purpose that may be".

While Councilman Olson cited the anticipated increase in school 
costs in answer to a direct question from a taxpayer, the impact upon 
a school system does not have to be measured only in increased taxes 
to find alarm in uncontrolled growth. We in East Greenwich have the 
example of two neighboring communities, one currently utilizing double 
sessions in their schools, and the other facing this prospect next year. 
It has already been reported in your newspapers that the East Greenwich 
School Committee is considering additions to at least one 
elementary school and to the high school to insure future accommodations 
for a school population that we know will increase. If they are to 
be commended for foresight in their planning, what then is the judgment 
of a town council that compounds this problem during the planning stage? 
Where then is the sound planning and cooperation between agencies 
within the community that you have called for in other editorials? 
I submit that it cannot be dismissed simply by saying we are not 
facing the facts of life.   The "fruitful course" of metropolitanization 
that you recommend is currently practiced by the town of 
East Greenwich and had its inception long before we learned what it 
was called. For example: _1._ The East Greenwich Police Department 
utilizes the radio transmission facilities of the Warwick Police 
Department, thereby eliminating duplication of facilities and 
ensuring police coordination in the Cowessett-East Greenwich-Potowomut 
area of the two communities. _2._ The East Greenwich 
Fire District services parts of Warwick as well as East Greenwich. 

_3._ The taxpayers of East Greenwich appropriate sums of money, 
as do other Kent County communities, for the support of the Kent 
County Memorial Hospital, a regional facility. _4._ The East 
Greenwich Free Library receives financial support from the town of 
East Greenwich and the City of Warwick to supplement its endowment. 

_5._ Feelers were put out last year to the City of Warwick, 
as reported in your newspapers, suggesting investigation of a common rubbish 
disposal area to service the Potowomut and Cowessett areas of 
Warwick along with East Greenwich. _6._ East Greenwich was one 
of the first Rhode Island towns to enter into contract agreement with 
the Rhode Island Development Council for planning services we 
could not provide for ourselves. _7._ The education program for retarded 
children conducted by the East Greenwich school system has pupils 
from at least one neighboring community.   I feel compelled 
to write this because I am greatly concerned with the problem of community 
growth rate and the relation between types of growth in a town 
such as East Greenwich. I believe it is an area in which professional 
planners have failed to set adequate guide posts; and yet they cannot 
ignore this problem because it concerns the implementation of nearly 
all the planning programs they have devised. These programs are 
volumes of waste paper and lost hours if the citizens of a community must 
stand aside while land developers tell them when, where, and in what 
manner the community shall grow. We have far less to fear in the migrant 
family than we have in the migrant developer under these conditions.

Until professional planners meet this situation squarely 
and update the concepts of zoning in a manner acceptable to the courts, 
I hope we in East Greenwich can continue to shape our own destiny. 
@

I would like very much, on behalf of my husband and myself, to 
send our eternal thanks to all the wonderful people responsible for the 
Gabrielle Fund.   It is indeed true, as stated in the famous 
novel of our day, "For Whom the Bell Tolls", that "no man 
is an island, entirely of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, 
a part of the main".   Thanks to the generosity of Mr& 
Irving J& Fain, president of the Temple Beth El; Rev& 
DeWitt Clemens, pastor of the Mathewson Street Methodist Church; 
Mr& Felix Miranda, of the Imperial Knife Co&; and to Mrs& 
Rozella Switzer, regional director of The National Conference 
of Christians and Jews, who asked them to serve as a committee for 
the fund. It is through them that we have become aware of the divine 
humanity in man, and therefore, that most people are noble, helpful 
and good.   Bless you my friends, for it is through love and service 
that brotherhood becomes a reality. @

I am a sophomore at Mount Pleasant High School. My future 
plans are to become a language teacher. Of course, having this desire, 
I am very interested in education.   A few weeks ago, I read 
in the Bulletin that there were to be given Chinese classes in Cranston. 
The article also said that a person had to be 18 years old or 
over, and must not be going to high school to attend these classes.

The following week, I read in the Sunday paper that the students 
of Russia begin European and Asian languages in the seventh grade.

I wish you could see the situation as I see it. If Russian 
pupils have to take these languages, how come American students have 
a choice whether or not to take a language, but have to face so many 
exceptions?   I do not think that America is like Russia, 
not in the least! I am proud of my country, the small city I live 
in, my wonderful parents, my friends and my school; but I am also 
a young, able and willing girl who wants to study the Chinese language 
but is not old enough.   Then people wonder why Russian pupils 
are more advanced than American students. Well, there lies your answer. 
@

At the height of the first snowstorm we had, it was impossible 
for me to get medical attention needed during an emergency.   However, 
the East Providence Rescue Squad made its way through to my 
home in time of desperation.   Words cannot tell of the undivided 
attention and comfort their service gave to me. The concern they 
felt for me was such as I shall never forget and for which I will always 
be grateful.   The rescue squad is to be praised immensely 
for the fine work they do in all kinds of weather. Had they not gotten 
me to the hospital when they did, perhaps I would not be here to 
commend them at this time.   Many thanks for a job well 
done. @

The Providence Sunday Journal article (Jan& 29) asking whether 
American taxpayers are being victimized by a gigantic giveaway 
to pay for the care of war veterans who have non-service-connected disabilities 
sounds as though The Providence Journal is desperate for 
news. Usually a veteran has to hang himself to get space on the front 
page.   On the question of admission to Veterans Administration 
hospitals of service-connected and non-service-connected disabled 
veterans, it must be recognized that there are many men who are greatly 
affected by war service. It can manifest itself before discharge from 
service, or it can come out years later. There is one other point 
we should never lose sight of: Many veterans who enter ~VA hospitals 
as non-service cases later qualify as service-connected. No psychiatrist 
could tell me that the experience in a war can not have its 
effect in the ensuing years.   The arguments advanced by those individuals 
and groups who oppose the system in force and who would drastically 
curtail or do away entirely with hospital care for the non-service-connected 
case, seem to be coldly impractical and out-of-step with 
the wishes of the general public.   I believe in priority for 
service-connected disabled veterans in admission to ~VA hospitals. 
But I don't believe we should close the door on nonservice-connected 
patients. This matter is of great importance, and the outcome may 
mean the difference between life or death, or at least serious injuries, 
for many veterans.   Some critics say that the length of stay 
in a hospital is too long. There's a reason for this length of stay. 
First of all, the admitting physician in the ~VA hospital gets 
the patient as a new patient. He has no experience with this veteran's 
previous medical record. If the doctor is conscientious, he wants 
to study the patient. As a result, it takes a little longer than 
it would on the outside where the family physician knows about the patient.

Secondly, the ~VA physician knows that when the patient 
leaves the hospital, he is no longer going to have a chance to visit 
his patient. So he keeps the veteran in until he can observe the effects 
of treatment or surgery.   The American public must be presented 
with the facts concerning ~VA hospitalization. The public 
should understand that whether they support a state hospital or a ~VA 
hospital, the tax dollar has to be paid one way or the other. The 
responsibility is still going to be there whether they pay for a ~VA 
hospital or the tax dollar is spent for the state hospital. An 
adequate system of ~VA hospitals is better equipped to care for the 
veterans than any 50 state hospitals. @

It seems that open season upon veterans' hospitalization is 
once more upon us. The American Medical Association is once again 
grinding out its tear-soaked propaganda based upon the high cost of the 
Veterans Administration medical program to the American taxpayer. 
Do they, the A&M&A&, offer any solution other than outright 
abolition of a medical system unsurpassed anywhere in the world?

We veterans acknowledge the fact that as time passes the demand 
for medical care at ~VA hospitals will grow proportionately as age 
fosters illness. Nevertheless, we wonder at the stand of the A&M&A& 
on the health problem confronting the aged. They opposed 
the Forand bill, which would have placed the major burden of financial 
support upon the individual himself through compulsory payroll deduction; 
yet they supported the Eisenhower administration which will 
cost a small state like ours approximately five million dollars (matched 
incidentally by a federal grant) to initiate. 
#"A LOUSY JOB"#


_CHICAGO, AUG& 9_- No doubt there have 
been moments during every Presidency when the man in the White House 
has had feelings of frustration, exasperation, exhaustion, and even 
panic. This we can sympathetically understand. But no President ever 
before referred to his as a "lousy job" [as Walter Trohan recently 
quoted President Kennedy as doing in conversation with Sen& 
Barry Goldwater].   During his aggressive campaign to win 
his present position, Mr& Kennedy was vitriolic about this country's 
"prestige" abroad. What does he think a remark like this "lousy" 
one does to our prestige and morale?   If the President 
of the United States really feels he won himself a "lousy job", 
then heaven help us all. @ 

#QUESTIONS SHELTERS#


_EVANSVILLE, 
IND&, AUG& 5_- Defense Secretary Robert S& McNamara 
has asked Congress for authority and funds to build fallout shelters 
costing about 200 million dollars. Why should Congress even consider 
allowing such a sum for that which can give no protection?

Top scientists have warned that an area hit by an atomic missile of 
massive power would be engulfed in a suffocating fire storm which would 
persist for a long time. The scientists have also warned that no life 
above ground or underground, sheltered or unsheltered could be expected 
to survive in an area at least 50 miles in diameter.   This 
sum spent for foreign economic aid, the peace corps, food for peace, 
or any other program to solve the problems of the underdeveloped countries 
would be an investment that would pay off in world peace, increased 
world trade, and prosperity for every country on the globe. 
Let us prepare for peace, instead of for a war which would mean the 
end of civilization. @ 

#SHORT SHORTS ON THE CAMPUS#


_CHICAGO, 
AUG& 4_- It seems college isn't what it should be. I refer to 
the attire worn by the students. Upon a visit to a local junior college 
last week, I was shocked to see the young ladies wearing short shorts 
and the young men wearing Bermuda shorts.   Is this what 
our children are to come face to face with when they are ready for college 
in a few years? 
Education should be uppermost in their minds, but 
with this attire how can anyone think it is so? It looks more like 
they are going to play at the beach instead of taking lessons on bettering 
themselves.   High school students have more sense of the 
way to dress than college students. Many high school students go past 
my house every day, and they look like perfect ladies and gentlemen. 
No matter how hot the day, they are dressed properly and not in shorts. 
@ 

#MASARYK AWARD# 


_CHICAGO, AUG& 9_- The granting of 
the Jan Masaryk award August 13 to Senator Paul Douglas is a bitter 
example of misleading minorities.   Douglas has consistently 
voted to aid the people who killed Masaryk, and against principles 
Masaryk died to uphold. Douglas has voted for aid to Communists and 
for the destruction of individual freedom [public housing, foreign aid, 
etc&]. @ 

#SUBSIDIES FROM ~CTA#


_OAK PARK, AUG& 
8_- In today's "Voice", the ~CTA is urged to reduce fares 
for senior citizens. Rising costs have increased the difficulties 
of the elderly, and I would be the last to say they should not receive 
consideration. But why is it the special responsibility of the ~CTA 
to help these people?   Why should ~CTA regular riders 
subsidize reduced transportation for old people any more than the 
people who drive their own cars or walk to work should? The welfare 
of citizens, old and young, is the responsibility of the community, 
not only of that part of it that rides the ~CTA. ~CTA regulars 
already subsidize transportation for school children, policemen, 
and firemen. @ 

#MARKETING MEAT#


_CHICAGO, AUG& 9_- In 
reply to a letter in today's "voice" urging the sale of meat after 
6 p& m&, I wish to state the other side of the story.   I 
am the wife of the owner of a small, independent meat market. My husband's 
hours away from home for the past years have been from 7 a& 
m& to 7 p& m& the early part of the week, and as late as 8 or 
9 on week-ends. Now he is apparently expected to give up his evenings- 
and Sundays, too, for this is coming.   There is a trend to 
packaging meat at a central source, freezing it, and shipping it to outlying 
stores, where meat cutters will not be required. If a customer 
wishes a special cut, it will not be available. We are slowly being 
regimented to having everything packaged, whether we want it or not.

Most women, in this age of freezers, shop for the entire week 
on week-ends, when prices are lower. Also, many working wives have children 
or husbands who take over the shopping chores for them. 
Independent market owners work six days a week; and my husband hasn't 
had a vacation in 14 years. No, we are not greedy. But if we closed 
the store for a vacation, we would lose our customers to the chain 
stores in the next block.   The meat cutters' union, which has 
a history of being one of the fairest and least corrupt in our area, 
represents the little corner markets as well as the large supermarkets. 
What it is trying to do is to protect the little man, too, as well 
as trying to maintain a flow of fresh meat to all stores, with choice 
of cut being made by the consumer, not the store. @ 

#THE LEGION 
CONVENTION AND SIDNEY HOLZMAN#


_CHICAGO, AUG& 9_- I, too, 
congratulate the American Legion, of which I am proud to have been 
a member for more than 40 years, on the recent state convention.

I regret that Bertha Madeira [today's "Voice"] obtained 
incorrect information. Had I been granted the floor on a point of 
personal privilege, the matter she raised would have been clarified.

The resolution under discussion at the convention was to require 
the boards of election to instruct judges to properly display the 
American flag. Judges under the jurisdiction of the Chicago board of 
election commissioners are instructed to do this.   The resolution 
further asked that polling place proprietors affix an attachment 
to their premises for the display of the flag.   It was my desire 
to advise the membership of the Legion that the majority of polling 
places are on private property and, without an amendment to the law, 
we could not enforce this. My discussion with reference to the resolution 
was that we should commend those citizens who serve as judges of 
election and who properly discharge their duty and polling place proprietors 
who make available their private premises, and not by innuendo 
criticize them. At no time did I attempt to seek approval or commendation 
for the members of the Chicago board of election commissioners 
for the discharge of their duties. @ 

#TEACHING THE HANDICAPPED# 


_CHICAGO, AUG& 7_- The Illinois Commission for Handicapped 
Children wishes to commend the recent announcement by the Catholic 
charities of the archdiocese of Chicago and DePaul university of 
the establishment of the Institute for Special Education at the university 
for the training of teachers for physically handicapped and mentally 
retarded children.   In these days of serious shortage 
of properly trained teachers qualified to teach physically handicapped 
and mentally handicapped children, the establishment of such an institute 
will be a major contribution to the field.   The Illinois 
Commission for Handicapped Children, which for 20 years has had the 
responsibility of coo^rdinating the services of tax supported and voluntary 
organizations serving handicapped children, of studying the 
needs 
of handicapped children in Illinois, and of promoting more adequate 
services for them, indeed welcomes this new important resource which will 
help the people of Illinois toward the goal of providing an education 
for all of its children. @ 

#FROM CANDLELIGHT CLUB#


_MINNEAPOLIS, 
AUG& 7_- I just want to let you know how much I enjoyed 
your June 25 article on Liberace, and to thank you for it. Please 
do put more pictures and articles in about Liberace, as he is truly 
one of our greatest entertainers and a really wonderful person. @ 

#MORE SCHOOL, LESS PAY#


_CHICAGO, AUG& 7_- Is this, 
perhaps, 
one of the things that is wrong with our country?   Engineering 
graduates of Illinois Institute of Technology are reported receiving 
the highest average starting salaries in the school's history- 
$550 a month.   My son, who has completed two years in engineering 
school, has a summer job on a construction project as an unskilled 
laborer. At a rate of $3.22 an hour he is now earning approximately 
$580 a month.   Ironic, is it not, that after completing years 
of costly scientific training he will receive a cut in pay from what 
he is receiving as an ordinary unskilled laborer? @ 

#THE DUPONT 
CASE#

[<Editorial comment on this letter appears elsewhere on this 
page>.] _WASHINGTON, AUG& 4_- Your July 26 editorial regarding 
the position of Attorney General Robert F& Kennedy on prospective 
tax relief for du Pont stockholders is based on an erroneous 
statement of fact. As a result, your criticism of Attorney General 
Robert F& Kennedy and the department of justice was inaccurate, 
unwarranted and unfair.   The editorial concerned legislative proposals 
to ease the tax burden on du Pont stockholders, in connection 
with the United States Supreme court ruling that du Pont must divest 
itself of its extensive General Motors stock holdings. These proposals 
would reduce the amount of tax that du Pont stockholders might 
have to pay- from an estimated 1.1 billion dollars under present 
law to as little as 192 million dollars.   Congressman Wilbur D& 
Mills, chairman of the House Ways and Means committee, asked 
the department of justice for its views on these legislative proposals 
as they related to anti-trust law enforcement. The attorney general 
responded by letter dated July 19. Copies of this letter were made 
avaliable to the press and public.   In this letter, Mr& Kennedy 
made it clear that he limited his comment only to one consideration- 
what effect the legislative proposals might have on future anti-trust 
judgments. There are a number of other considerations besides 
this one but it is for the Congress, not the department of justice, 
to balance these various considerations and make a judgment about legislation.

Yet your editorial said: "Now the attorney general 
writes that no considerations 'justify any loss of revenue of this 
proportion'". What Mr& Kennedy, in fact, wrote was: "It 
is the department's view that no <anti-trust enforcement> considerations 
justify any loss of revenue of this proportion".   The 
editorial, by omitting the words <anti-trust enforcement>, totally 
distorted Mr& Kennedy's views. The headline is offensive, particularly 
in view of the total inaccuracy of the editorial. @ 

#CONGRESSWOMAN 
CHURCH#


_WILMETTE, AUG& 7_- I concur most heartily 
with today's letter on the futility of writing to Sen& Dirksen 
and Sen& Douglas.   But when you write to Congresswoman 
Church, bless her heart, your letter is answered fully and completely. 
Should she disagree, she explains why in detail. When she agrees, 
you can rest assured her position will remain unchanged.   I think 
we have the hardest working, best representative in Congress. 

#HARMFUL 
DRINKS#


_DOWNERS GROVE, AUG& 8_- A recent news story 
reported that Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin delayed 103 airplane 
passengers 10 minutes in London while they finished their drinks.

They do our country great harm by such actions. Those in the public 
eye should be good examples of American citizens while abroad.

The plane should have started at the scheduled time and left Sinatra 
and Martin to guzzle. @ 

#TOWARD SOCIALISM#


_PROVIDENCE, 
AUG& 5_- Overt socialism means government ownership and management 
of a nation's main industries. In covert socialism- toward 
which America is moving- private enterprise retains the ownership 
title to industries but government thru direct intervention and excessive 
regulations actually controls them.   In order to attract 
new industries, 15 states or more are issuing tax free bonds to build 
government owned plants which are leased to private enterprise. This 
is a step toward overt socialism.   Issuing bonds for plant construction 
has brought new industries to certain regions. 
#"WORKERS OF THE PARTY"#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ Sir- We are 
writing in reference to a recent "suggestion" made to the staff 
of the Public Health Nursing Service of Jersey City (registered 
professional nurses with college background and varying experiences). 
The day before Election Day, to which we are entitled as a legal holiday, 
we were informed to report to our respective polls to work as "workers 
of the party".   Being ethical and professional people 
interested in community health and well-being, we felt this wasn't 
a function of our position. Such tactics reek of totalitarianism! 
As we understand, this directive was given to all city and county employes.

To our knowledge no nurse in our agency has been employed 
because of political affiliation. We, therefore, considered the "suggestion" 
an insult to our intelligence, ethics, Bill of Rights, 
etc&. Our only obligation for this day is to vote, free of persuasion, 
for the person we feel is capable in directing the public.

This is our duty- not as nurses or city employes- but as citizens 
of the United States. @ #"PLUS-ONE" SHELTERS#


_TO THE 
EDITOR:_ Sir- I read of a man who felt he should not build 
a fallout shelter in his home because it would be selfish for him to 
sit secure while his neighbors had no shelters. Does this man live in 
a neighborhood where all are free loaders unwilling to help themselves, 
but ready to demand that "the community" help and protect them?

Community shelters are, of course, necessary for those 
having 
no space for shelter. If in a town of 2,000 private homes, half of 
them have shelters, the need for the community shelters will be reduced 
to that extent.   In designing his home fallout shelter there 
is nothing to prevent a man from planning to shelter that home's occupants, 
"plus-one"- so he will be able to take in a stranger. I 
hope the man who plans to sit on his hands until the emergency comes 
will have a change of heart, will get busy and be the first member of 
our "plus-one" shelter club. @ 

#ESCAPE#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ 
Sir- People continue to inquire the reason for the race for outer 
space. It's simple enough from my point of view. I am for it.

It is the only method left for a man to escape from a woman's 
world. @ 

#SUPPORTS KATANGA#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ Sir- When 
the colonies decided upon freedom from England, we insisted, through 
the Declaration of Independence, that the nations of the world recognize 
us as a separate political entity. It is high time the United 
States began to realize that the God-given rights of men set forth 
in that document are applicable today to Katanga.   In the United 
Nations Charter, the right of self-determination is also an essential 
principle. This, again, applies to Katanga. The people of Katanga 
had fought for, and obtained, their freedom from the Communist 
yoke of Antoine Gizenga, and his cohorts. By political, economic, geographic 
and natural standards, they were justified in doing so.

The United States and the U&N& denounce their own principles 
when they defend the Communist oppressors and refuse to acknowledge 
the right of self-determination of the Katangans. @ 

#COUNTY 
COLLEGE COSTS#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ Sir- Permit me to commend 
your editorial in which you stress the fact that a program of county 
colleges will substantially increase local tax burdens and that taxpayers 
have a right to a clear idea of what such a program would commit 
them to.   The bill which passed the Assembly last May and 
is now pending in the Senate should be given careful scrutiny. The procedure 
for determining the amounts of money to be spent by county colleges 
and raised by taxation will certainly startle many taxpayers.

Under the proposal the members of the board of trustees of a county 
college will be appointed; none will be elected. The trustees 
will prepare an annual budget for the college and submit it to the board 
of school estimate. This board will consist of two of the trustees 
of the college, and the director and two members of the board of freeholders. 
It will determine the amount of money to be spent by the college 
and will certify this amount to the board of freeholders, which "shall 
appropriate in the same manner as other appropriations are made 
by it the amount so certified and the amount shall be assessed, levied 
and collected in the same manner as moneys appropriated for other purposes".

The approval of only three members of the board of 
school estimate is required to certify the amount of money to be allotted 
to the college. Since two of these could be trustees of the college, 
actually it would be necessary to have the consent of only one elected 
official to impose a levy of millions of dollars of tax revenue. 
This is taxation without representation. @ 

#TAXING IMPROVEMENTS#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ Sir- Your editorial, 
"Housing Speedup", is certainly not the answer to our slum problems. 
The very rules and regulations in every city are the primary 
case of slum conditions.   Change our taxing law so that no tax 
shall be charged to any owner for additions or improvements to his properties. 
Then see what a boom in all trades, as well as slum clearance 
at no cost to taxpayers, will happen. Our entire economy will have 
a terrific uplift. @ #"NATURAL CAUSES"#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ 
Sir- An old man is kicked to death by muggers. The medical examiner 
states that death was due to "natural causes".   I once 
heard a comedian say that if you are killed by a taxicab in New York, 
it is listed as "death due to natural causes". @ 

#PRAISES 
EXHIBIT#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ Sir- Every resident of this city 
should visit the Newark Museum and see the exhibit "Our Changing 
Skyline in Newark". It will be at the museum until March 30.

It is a revelation of what has been done, what is being done 
and what will be done in Newark as shown by architects' plans, models 
and pictures. It shows what a beautiful city Newark will become and 
certainly make every Newarker proud of this city.   It should 
also make him desire to participate actively in civic, school and religious 
life of the community so that that phase of Newark will live 
up to the challenge presented by this exhibit. @ 

#PARKWAY COURTESY# 


_TO THE EDITOR:_ Sir- I hasten to join in praise of the 
men in the toll booths on the Garden State Parkway. Recently I traveled 
the parkway from East Orange to Cape May and I found the most 
courteous group of men you will find anywhere. One even gave my little 
dog a biscuit. It was very refreshing. @ 
#"DEEP PEEP SHOW"#

The viewers of the "deep Peep Show" 
at 15th and ~M streets nw& have an added attraction- the view 
of a fossilized cypress swamp. Twenty feet below the street level 
in the excavation of the new motel to be constructed on this site, a black 
coal-like deposit has been encountered.   This is a black swamp 
clay in which about one hundred million years ago cypress-like trees 
were growing. The fossilized remains of many of these trees are found 
embedded in the clay. Some of the stumps are as much as three feet 
long, but most of them have been flattened by the pressure of the overlying 
sediments. Although the wood has been changed to coal, much 
of it still retains its original cell structure.   In the clay are 
entombed millions of pollen grains and spores which came from plants 
growing in the region at the time. These microfossils indicate the 
swamp was "formed during the Lower Cretaceous period when dinosaurs 
were at their heyday and when the first flowering plants were just appearing.

The 15th Street deposit is not to be confused with 
the nearby famous Mayflower Hotel cypress swamp on 17th Street reported 
in <The Washington Post>, August 2, 1955, which was probably 
formed during the second interglacial period and is therefore much younger. 
@ 

#WORKING FOR PEACE#

Recently the secretary of the Friends 
Committee on National Legislation was interviewed on the air. 
While I respect his sincere concern for peace, he made four points 
that I would like to question. _1._ He said, "Let's work for 
peace instead of protection from aggression". I would ask, "Why 
not do both"? Military power does not cause war; war is the result 
of mistrust and lack of understanding between people. Are we not 
late, especially those of us who call ourselves Friends, in doing enough 
about this lack of understanding? _2._ As to protection, 
the speaker disapproved of shelters, pointing out that fallout shelters 
would not save everyone. Is this a reason for saving no one? Would 
the man with an empty life boat row away from a shipwreck because his 
boat could not pick up everyone? _3._ The speaker suggested 
that the desolation of a post-attack world would be too awful to face. 
If the world comes to this, wouldn't it be the very time when courage 
and American know-how would be needed to help survivors rebuild? 
Many of our young people think it would. _4._ Lastly, the speaker 
decried our organized program of emergency help calling it "Civilian 
Defense". In 1950, Public Law 920 created Civil Defense 
(different from Civilian-groups of World War /2,), a responsibility 
of the Government at all levels to help reduce loss of life and property 
in disaster, natural or manmade.   Far from creating fear, 
as the speaker suggests, preparedness- knowing what to do in an emergency- 
gives people confidence. Civil Defense has far to go and 
many problems to solve, but is it not in the best spirit of our pioneer 
tradition to be not only willing, but prepared to care for our own families 
and help our neighbors in any disaster- storm, flood, accident 
or even war? @ 

#PETS IN APARTMENTS#

It seems rather peculiar 
that residents of apartments are denied the right of providing themselves 
with the protection and companionship of dogs. I feel that few 
burglars would be prone to break and enter into someone's apartment 
if they were met with a good hardy growl that a dog would provide. In 
addition, would not the young female public of Washington be afforded 
a greater degree of protection at night when they are on the streets 
if they were accompanied by a dog on a leash?   I grant that 
the dog may not be really protective, based on his training, but if you 
were roaming the streets looking for a purse to snatch or a young lady 
to molest, how quick would you be to attack a person strolling with 
a dog? I would like to suggest that the landlords and Commissioners 
get together and consider liberalizing the practice of prohibiting 
dogs in apartments. @ 

#SIDEWALK CAFES#

Use the terraces of the 
Capitol for a sidewalk cafe? Could Senator Humphrey be serious 
in his proposal? Is nothing in this country more sacred than the tourists' 
comfort?   Perhaps the idea of sidewalk cafes could 
be extended. The Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials are rather bleak. 
Why not put a cafe in each so the tourists would not have to travel 
too far to eat? Unfortunately the cafes might not make enough money 
to support themselves during the off season. As an added suggestion 
to balance the budget, the Government could sell advertising space 
on the Washington Monument. It is visible throughout the city, and 
men from Madison ave& would jump at the chance. @ #@#

Sen& 
Hubert Humphrey is obviously a man with a soul and heart. He, like 
most of us, wants to be able to sit, to contemplate and be moved by 
the great outdoors. Let us have more benches and fewer forbidden areas 
around fountains and gardens. Let us, like the French, have outdoor 
cafes where we may relax, converse at leisure and enjoy the passing 
crowd. @ 

#DISSENTING VIEWS OF SENATORS#

Two strong dissents from 
the majority report of the Joint Economic Committee (May 2) by 
Senators Proxmire and Butler allege that the New Deal fiscal policy 
of the Thirties did not work. 

#FOR A NEUTRAL GERMANY#

@ _SOVIETS SAID TO FEAR RESURGENCE OF 
GERMAN MILITARISM_ @ _TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES:_ 
For the first time in history the entire world is dominated by two large, 
powerful nations armed with murderous nuclear weapons that make conventional 
warfare of the past a nullity. The United States and Soviet 
Russia have enough nuclear weapons to destroy all nations. Recent 
statements 
by well-known scientists regarding the destructive power 
of the newest nuclear bombs and the deadly fall-outs should be sufficient 
to still the voices of those who advocate nuclear warfare instead 
of negotiations.   President Kennedy was right when he said, "We 
shall never negotiate out of fear and we never shall fear to negotiate". 
I have just returned from a seven-week trip to Europe and 
the Far East. It is quite evident that the people of Western Europe 
are overwhelmingly opposed to participation in a nuclear war. The 
fact is that the Italians, French and British know that they have 
no defense against nuclear bombs. We have no right to criticize them, 
as they realize they would be sitting ducks in a nuclear war. 
We should stand firmly and courageously for our right to free access 
into Berlin. It would be criminal folly if the Communists tried to 
prevent us. But there is nothing we can do to stop Soviet Russia from 
granting de facto recognition to East Germany. Soviet Russia has 
been invaded twice by German troops in a generation. In the last war 
Russia lost more than ten million killed and its lands and factories 
were devastated. _PROBABLE AGREEMENT_ The truth is that Communist 
Russia fears the resurgence of German militarism. Berlin is merely 
being used by Moscow as a stalking horse. Actually, the 
Communists, 
out of fear of a united and armed Germany, would probably be willing 
to agree to a disarmed Germany that would be united and neutral 
and have its independence guaranteed by the U& N&.   If 
the Communists are sincere in wanting a united, neutral and disarmed 
Germany, it might well be advantageous for the German people in this 
nuclear age. It could provide security without cost of armaments and 
increase German prosperity and lessen taxation. France and other Western 
European nations likewise fear a rearmed Germany. If the German 
people favor such a settlement we should not oppose Germany following 
the example of Austria.   President Kennedy has urged a 
peace race on disarmament that might be called "Operation Survival" 
which has many facets. Why not make a beginning with a united and 
disarmed Germany whose neutrality and immunity from nuclear bombing 
would be guaranteed by the Big Four powers and the United States? 
A united Germany, freed of militarism, might be the first step toward 
disarmament and peace in a terrorized and tortured world. @ 

#MEETING 
U& N& OBLIGATIONS#


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK 
TIMES:_ In your editorial of Sept& 30 "The Smoldering Congo" 
you make the following comment: "Far too many states are following 
the Russian example in refusing to pay their assessments. It 
is up to the Assembly to take action against them. They are violating 
their Charter obligation, the prescribed penalty for which is suspension 
of membership or expulsion".   I would like to quote from 
the Charter of the United Nations:   "Article 17, Section 
1: The General Assembly shall consider and approve the budget 
of the Organization.   "Section 2: The expenses of the 
Organization shall be borne by the Members as apportioned by the General 
Assembly.   "Article 19: A Member of the United Nations 
which is in arrears in the payment of its financial contributions 
to the Organization shall have no vote in the General Assembly if 
the amount of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions 
due from it for the preceding two full years".   The U& 
S& S& R& and her followers are careful in paying their obligations 
to the regular budget. But they refuse, as do the Arab states, 
to support the United Nations' expenses of maintaining the United 
Nations Emergency Force in the Middle East as a buffer between 
Egypt and Israel, and the U& N& troops in the Congo, which 
expenses are not covered by the regular budget of the United Nations, 
but by a special budget.   According to the official interpretation 
of the Charter, a member cannot be penalized by not having the 
right to vote in the General Assembly for nonpayment of financial 
obligations to the "special" United Nations' budgets, and of 
course cannot be expelled from the Organization (which you suggested 
in your editorial), due to the fact that there is no provision in the 
Charter for expulsion. @ 

#TO AID INTERNATIONAL LAW#

@ _CONNALLY 
AMENDMENT'S REPEAL HELD STEP TOWARD WORLD ORDER_ @ _TO THE 
EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES:_ In your Sept& 27 editorial appraisal 
of the work of the First Session of the Eighty-seventh Congress 
you referred to the lack of "consciousness of destiny in a time 
of acute national and world peril". Yet your list of things left 
undone did not include repeal of the Connally amendment to this country's 
domestic jurisdiction reservation to its Adherence to the Statute 
of the International Court of Justice.   The Connally 
amendment says that the United States, rather than the court, shall 
determine whether a matter is essentially within the domestic jurisdiction 
of the United States in a case before the World Court to which 
the United States is a party. If the case is thus determined by us 
to be domestic, the court has no jurisdiction.   Since the Connally 
amendment has the effect of giving the same right to the other 
party to a dispute with the United States, it also prevents us from 
using the court effectively. Yet although the Kennedy Administration, 
and the Eisenhower Administration before it, have both declared themselves 
solidly for repeal of the Connally amendment, as contrary to 
our best interests, no action has yet been taken.   Our "destiny" 
in these perilous times should be to lead strongly in the pursuit 
of peace, with justice, under law. To achieve this destiny, acts 
as well as words are needed- not only acts that lead to physical strength 
but also acts that lead to strength based on right doing and respect.

What better affirmative step could be taken to this end 
than repeal of the Connally amendment- an act which could expose 
the 
United States to no practical risk yet would put an end to our self-judging 
attitude toward the court, enable us to utilize it, and advance 
in a tangible way the cause of international law and order?

We believe that the list of vital things left undone to date by the 
Eighty-seventh Congress should have included repeal by the Senate 
of the Connally amendment. @ 

#FOR BETTER SUBWAY SERVICES#


_TO 
THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES:_ Many home-bound subway riders 
utilizing the Flushing-Main Street express are daily confronted with 
the sight of the local departing from the Woodside station as their 
express comes to a stop, leaving them stranded and strained. To the 
tens of thousands who must transfer to ride to Seventy-fourth Street 
and change for the ~IND, this takes a daily toll of time and temper.

The Transit Authority has recently placed in operation 
"hold" lights at ~BMT Thirty-ninth and Fifty-ninth Street 
stations in Brooklyn. This "holds" the local until the express 
passengers change trains. Without question, this time and temper saver 
should be immediately installed at the Woodside station. @ 

#PHONE 
SERVICE CRITICIZED#


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES:_ 
As a business man I have to use the telephone constantly, from three 
to four hours a day.   In the last few years the telephone company 
has managed to automate many areas of their service. It has not 
been any great mental effort on my part to keep up with this mechanization 
which has brought about new ways of dialing.   However, there 
are still several types of calls that necessitate the use of telephone 
operators. I have been absolutely shocked at the ineptness of the 
young ladies who are servicing person-to-person calls, special long-distance 
calls, etc&. Either it is lack of training, lack of proper 
screening when hiring, lack of management or possibly lack of interest 
on the part of the telephone company, which does have a Government-blessed 
monopoly. 

#FAIR-PRICED FUNERAL#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ I disagree with the 
writer who says funeral services should be government-controlled. 
The funeral 
for my husband was just what I wanted and I paid a fair price, far 
less than I had expected to pay. But the hospitals and doctors should 
be. @ 

#HELPING RETARDED CHILDREN#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ Recently 
I visited the very remarkable Pilgrim School for retarded children.

Hazel Park donates its recreation center, five days a 
week, to the school. There is no charge and no state aid. Kiwanis, 
American Legion and other groups donate small sums and the mothers do 
what they can to bring in dollars for its support.   There are 
70 children there and the mothers donate one day a week to the school. 
Reading, writing and simple arithmetic are taught along with such crafts 
as working in brass. They make beautiful objects.   Enough 
trading stamps were collected to buy a 12-passenger station wagon. Southfield 
schools furnish an old 45-passenger bus (the heater in which 
needs repair since some of the children ride a long distance and need 
the heat).   The school is located at 9-1/2 Mile road, Woodward 
Heights. Visitors are welcome to come see what these dedicated 
mothers can do. @ 

#JOBS FOR CAVANAGH#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ I 
was surprised at Mayor Miriani's defeat, but perhaps Mayor-elect 
Cavanagh can accomplish some things that should have been done years 
ago. Maybe he can clean out the white elephants in some of the city 
departments such as welfare, ~DPW and sanitation. Negligence in 
garbage and rubbish collections and alley cleaning is great.   He 
should put the police back to patrolling and walking the streets at 
night. There should be better bus service and all of our city departments 
and their various branches need a general and complete overhauling.

Our litterbug ordinances are not enforced and I have yet to 
read of a conviction in a littering case.   Drunken truck drivers 
in the city departments should be weeded out. Educate the city employes 
to give real service to the public. After all, they are paid by 
the public, they should be examples. @ 

#CHURCH FINDS NEWS FEATURES 
ARE HELPFUL#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ At a recent meeting of the Women's 
Association of the Trumbull Ave& United Presbyterian 
Church, considerable use was made of material from The Detroit News 
on the King James version of the New Testament versus the New English 
Bible.   Some members of the organization called attention 
also to the article on hymns of inspiration, the Daily Prayer and 
Three Minutes a Day, as being very helpful.   We feel that 
The Detroit News is to be complimented upon arranging for articles 
on these subjects and we hope that it will continue to provide material 
along wholesome lines. @ 

#RUDE YOUNGSTERS#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ 
Thank you for the article by George Sokolsky on the public apathy 
to impudence.   How old do you have to be to remember when Americans, 
especially children, were encouraged to be polite? Why has 
this form of gentility gone out of American life?   How can 
we old-fashioned parents, who still feel that adults are due some respect 
from children, battle the new type of advertising that appears on 
~TV without denying the children the use of television entirely? 
Writers of ads must get their inspiration from the attitude of "modern" 
parents they have observed. From necessity, they are also inspired 
by the "hard-sell" attitude of the sponsor, so, finally, it 
is the sponsor who must take the responsibility for the good or bad taste 
of his advertising. @ 

#DUNES PARK ADVOCATE#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ 
I commend Senator Hart for his brave fight to establish a national 
park in the dunes area. 

#GHOST TOWN?#


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ I just wish 
to 
congratulate Inspector Trimmer and his efficient police troops in 
cleaning the city of those horrible automobiles. We have now a quiet 
city, fewer automobiles, less congestion, and fewer retail customers shopping 
in center city. Good for Mr& Trimmer. Maybe he will help 
to turn our fair city into a "ghost" town. @ 

#DEFENDS BIG TRUCKS# 


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ I worked on the Schuylkill 
Expressway and if it had not been for the big trucks carrying rock 
and concrete there wouldn't be an Expressway. Without these massive 
trucks highways would still be just an idea of the future. 
Mr& George Hough (Oct& 30) sounds like a business man who waits 
until the last minute to leave his home or shop. The trucks today 
help pay for this highway. They try to keep within the speed limits. 
Although today's trucks are as fast as passenger cars, a truck driver 
has to be a sensible person and guard against hogging the road. @ 

#OUT OF SCHOOL AT 14#


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ The 
letter writer who suggested saving money by taking kids out of school 
at 14 should have signed his letter "SIMPLETON" instead of 
"SIMPLICITUDE". Such kids only wind up among the unemployed 
on relief or in jail where they become a much bigger burden. There are 
lots of jobs available for trained high school graduates, but not for 
the dropouts. What we need is more vocational training in high schools, 
not more dropouts. @ 

#TWO WRONGS#


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE 
INQUIRER:_ I suppose I am missing some elementary point but I honestly 
cannot see how two wrongs can make a right! I am referring 
to this country conducting atmosphere tests of nuclear bombs just because 
Russia is. Will our bombs be cleaner or will their fallout be less 
harmful to future generations of children? If an atom bomb in 1945 
could destroy an entire city surely the atomic arsenal we now have 
is more than adequate to fulfill any military objective required of it.

As I see it, if war starts and we survive the initial attack 
enough to be able to fight back, the nuclear weapons we now have- 
at least the bombs- can inflict all the demage that is necessary. Why 
do we need bigger and better bombs? I repeat, two wrongs do not 
make a right. @ #'WE TREMBLE NOT'#


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ 
Everyone should take time to read Martin Luther's Hymn 
"A Mighty Fortress Is Our God".   Especially the 
first half of the third verse: @ @ 

#OUT OF THE RACE#


_TO 
THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ To our everlasting shame, we led the 
world in this nuclear arms race sixteen years ago when we dropped the 
first bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.   Having led the world 
in this mad race I pray that we may have the wisdom and courage to lead 
it out of the race.   Are we to be the master of the atom, or 
will the atom be our master- and destroy us! @ 

#WHY TRUST JAGAN?# 


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ Just because Cheddi 
Jagan, new boss of British Guiana, was educated in the United States 
is no reason to think he isn't a Red. We have quite a few home-grown 
specimens of our own. If we go all gooey over this newest Castro 
(until he proves he isn't) we've got rocks in our heads. How 
many times must we get burned before we learn? @ 

#RUSSIA AND U&N&# 


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ Just to remind the Communists 
that the bombs dropped on Japan were to end a war not start 
one. The war could have continued many years with many thousands killed 
on both sides. Intelligent people will admit that bombs and rockets 
of destruction are frightening whether they fall on Japan, London 
or Pearl Harbor. That is why the United Nations was formed so that 
intelligent men with good intentions from all countries could meet 
and solve problems without resorting to war.   Russia has showed 
its intentions by exploding bombs in peace time to try to frighten the 
world. Why aren't the Soviets expelled from the U&N&? @ 

#BELATED TRIBUTE#


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ While 
"better late than never" may have certain merits, the posthumous 
award of the Nobel Prize for Peace to the late Dag Hammarskjold 
strikes me as less than a satisfactory expression of appreciation. Had 
it been bestowed while the Secretary General of the United Nations 
was living, unquestionably he would have been greatly encouraged in 
pursuing a difficult and, in many ways, thankless task.   According 
to one report, however, Mr& Hammarskjold was considered "too 
controversial" a figure to warrant bestowal of the coveted honor last 
spring. Actually, of course, that label "controversial" applied 
only because he was carrying out the mandate given him by the world 
organization he headed rather than following the dictates of the Soviet 
Union.   At Khrushchev's door, therefore, can be placed 
the primary blame but also at fault are those who permitted themselves 
to be intimidated. It is well for us to remember that a wreath on a 
coffin never can atone for flowers withheld while they still can be enjoyed. 
As has happened so often in the past, the ability to recognize 
true greatness has been inadequate and tardy. @ #'PEOPLE TO PEOPLE'# 


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ Just a brief note of 
appreciation to Vice President Johnson and Pakistani camel driver 
Bashir Ahmad for providing a first-class example of "people to people" 
good will. If only this could be done more often- with such 
heartening results- many of the earth's "big problems" would 
shrink to the insignificances they really are.   P& S&. Thanks 
for your good coverage of Ahmad's visit, too! @ 

#EXPRESSWAY 
ANSWER: EAST RIVER DRIVE#


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ 
Your continuing editorials concerning the Schuylkill Expressway 
are valuable; however, several pertinent considerations deserve recognition.

One of the problems associated with the expressway 
stems from the basic idea. We shuffle a large percentage of the cars 
across the river twice. They start on the East side of the Schuylkill, 
have to cross over to the West to use the expressway and cross over 
again to the East at their destination. Bridges, tunnels and ferries 
are the most common methods of river crossings. Each one of these 
is, by its nature, a focal point or a point of natural congestion. We 
should avoid these congestion points or, putting it another way, keep 
cars starting and ending on the East side of the river- on the East 
side.   This can be accomplished by several logical steps: 
_(1)_ Widen the East River Drive at least one lane. _(2)_ 
So widen it as to minimize the present curves and eliminate drainage 
problems. _(3)_ Paint continuous lane stripes and install overhead 
directional lights as on our bridges. One additional lane would then 
be directional with the traffic burden and effectively increase the 
traffic carrying capability of the East River Drive by fifty percent. 
_(4)_ This could be accomplished without the tremendous expenditures 
necessitated by the Schuylkill Expressway and without destroying 
the natural beauty of the East River Drive. @ 

#SHADOW OVER 
WASHINGTON SQUARE#


_TO THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ I wish 
to advocate two drastic changes in Washington Square: _1._ Take 
away George Washington's statue. _2._ Replace it with the 
statue of one or another of the world's famous dictators.   There's 
no sense in being reminded of times that were. Washington Square seems 
not part of a free land. It may remind one of Russia, China or 
East Berlin; but it can't remind one of the freedom that Washington 
and the Continental soldiers fought for.   The Fairmount 
Park Commission will no doubt approve my two proposals, because it 
is responsible for the change of ideological atmosphere in the Square. 
The matter may seem a small thing to some people, I know, but it's 
a very good start on the road to Totalitarianism **h The Commission 
has posted signs in Washington Square saying:   {The 
Feeding of Birds is Prohibited in This Square.}   <Fairmount 
Park Commission>   Does each tentacle of the octopus of 
City Government reach out and lash at whatever it dislikes or considers 
an annoyance? If birds don't belong in a Square or Park, what 
does? They are the most beautiful part of that little piece of Nature. 
The trees are their homes; but the Commission does not share 
such sentiments.   The whole official City apparently has an 
intense hatred toward birds. Starlings and blackbirds are scared off 
by cannon, from City Hall. Just a preliminary measure. If any are 
left, presently, we may expect to see signs specifically {PROHIBITING} 
the feeding of them too.   The City Government is not 
united in an all-out, to-the-death drive to stamp out gangs, delinquents, 
thugs, murderers, rapists, subversives. Indeed no. Let every 
policeman and park guard keep his eye on John and Jane Doe, lest one 
piece of bread be placed undetected and one bird survive.   Of 
course, in this small way of forcing the people to watch as tiny and 
innocent and dependent creatures die because we're afraid to feed them 
and afraid to protest and say "How come? What's your motive? 
{WHO} wants this deed done"?- in this small way do 
the leaders of a city, or of a nation, iniure the masses to watching, 
or even inflicting, torture and death, upon even their fellow men.

One means to help the birds occurs to me: Let the chimes that 
ring over Washington Square twice daily, discontinue any piece of music 
but one. Let them offer on behalf of those creatures whose melody 
has been the joy of mankind since time began, the hymn "Abide With 
Me". We will know, and He will know, to whom it is rendered, what 
the birds would ask: @ @ 

#NOT PUSH-UPS BUT STAND-UPS#


_TO 
THE EDITOR OF THE INQUIRER:_ There is a trend today to bemoan 
the fact that Americans are too "soft". Unfortunately, those who 
would remedy our "softness" seek to do so with calisthenics. They 
are working on the wrong part of our anatomy. It is not our bodies 
but our hearts and heads that have grown too soft. Ashamed of our wealth 
and power, afraid of so-called world opinion and addicted to peace, 
we have allowed our soft-heartedness to lead to soft-headed policies.

When we become firm enough to stand for those ideals which 
we know to be right, when we become hard enough to refuse to aid nations 
which do not permit self-determination, when we become strong enough 
to resist any more drifts towards socialism in our own Nation, when 
we recognize that our enemy is Communism not war, and when we realize 
that concessions to Communists do not insure peace or freedom, then, 
and only then will we no longer be "soft". America doesn't need 
to "push-up", she needs to stand up! @ 

#DISPUTES STANS COLUMN BUSINESS SCANDAL VIEWS#


_TO THE EDITOR:_ 
The new column by Maurice Stans regarding business scandals, is 
fair and accurate in most respects and his solution to the problem has 
some merit. However, he states unequivocally "the scandals in business 
are far less significant than the scandals in labor". I must, 
in fairness, take issue with his premise, primarily because the so-called 
scandals in labor unions were very much connected with business scandals.

The area most prominently commented on during the McClellan 
hearings had to do with "sweetheart contracts". These arrangements 
would have been impossible if the business community was truly 
interested in the welfare of its employes. A sweetheart arrangement 
can come about as often by employers doing the corrupting as by unscrupulous 
labor leaders demanding tribute. Anyone familiar with the details 
of the McClellan hearings must at once realize that the sweetheart 
arrangements augmented employer profits far more than they augmented 
the earnings of the corruptible labor leaders.   Further, it 
should be recalled that some very definite steps were taken by Congress 
to combat corruption in the labor movement by its passage of the 
Landrum-Griffin Act. 

#ESCALATION UNTO DEATH#

The nuclear war is already being fought, 
except that the bombs are not being dropped on enemy targets- not yet. 
It is being fought, moreover, in fairly close correspondence with 
the predictions of the soothsayers of the think factories. They predicted 
escalation, and escalation is what we are getting. The biggest nuclear 
device the United States has exploded measured some 15 megatons, 
although our ~B-52s are said to be carrying two 20-megaton bombs 
apiece. Some time ago, however, Mr& Khrushchev decided that when 
bigger bombs were made, the Soviet Union would make them. He seems 
to have at least a few 30- and 50-megaton bombs on hand, since we cannot 
assume that he has exploded his entire stock. And now, of course, 
the hue and cry for counter-escalation is being raised on our side. 
Khrushchev threatens us with a 100-megaton bomb? So be it- then 
we must embark on a crash program for 200-megaton bombs of the common 
or hydrogen variety, and neutron bombs, which do not exist but are said 
to be the coming thing. So escalation proceeds, ad infinitum or, more 
accurately, until the contestants begin dropping them on each other 
instead of on their respective proving grounds.   What is needed, 
Philip Morrison writes in <The Cornell Daily Sun> (October 
26) is a discontinuity. The escalation must end sometime, and probably 
quite soon. "Only a discontinuity can end it", Professor Morrison 
writes. "The discontinuity can either be that of war to destruction, 
or that of diplomatic policy".   Morrison points out 
that since our country is more urbanized than the Soviet Union or Red 
China, it is the most vulnerable of the great powers- Europe of 
course must be written off out of hand. He feels, therefore, that to 
seek a discontinuity in the arms policy of the United States is the 
least risky path our government can take. His proposal is opposed to 
that of Richard Nixon, Governor Rockefeller, past chairmen Strauss 
and McCone of the Atomic Energy Commission, Dr& Edward Teller 
and those others now enjoying their hour of triumph in the exacerbation 
of the cold war. These gentlemen are calling for a resumption 
of testing- in the atmosphere- on the greatest possible scale, all 
in the name of national security. Escalation is their first love and 
their last; they will be faithful unto death.   Capable as their 
minds may be in some directions, these guardians of the nation's 
security are incapable of learning, or even of observing. If this capacity 
had not failed them, they would see that their enemy has made a 
disastrous miscalculation. He has gained only one thing- he has exploded 
a 50-megaton bomb and he probably has rockets with sufficient thrust 
to lob it over the shorter intercontinental ranges. But if his 
purpose was to inspire terror, his action could hardly have miscarried 
more obviously. Not terror, but anger and resentment have been the 
general 
reaction outside the Soviet sphere.   Khrushchev himself is 
reported to be concerned by the surge of animosity he has aroused, yet 
our own nuclear statesmen seem intent on following compulsively in his 
footsteps. When one powerful nation strives to emulate the success 
of another, it is only natural. Thus, when the Russians sent up their 
first sputnik, American chagrin was human enough, and American determination 
to put American satellites into orbit was perfectly understandable. 
But to imitate an opponent when he has made the mistake of 
his life would be a new high in statesmanlike folly. 

#THE TIDE TURNS# 

When East Germans fled to the West by the thousands, paeans of 
joy rose from the throats of Western publicists. They are less vocal 
now, when it is the West Berliners who are migrating. The flood 
is not as great- only 700 a week according to one apparently conservative 
account- but it is symptomatic. West Berlin morale is low and, 
in age distribution, the situation is unfavorable. Nearly 18 per cent 
of West Berlin's 2,200,000 residents are sixty-five or older, 
only 12.8 per cent are under fifteen.   R& H& S& Crossman, 
M&P&, writing in <The Manchester Guardian>, states that 
departures from West Berlin are now running at the rate not of 700, 
but of 1,700 a week, and applications to leave have risen to 1,900 a 
week. The official statistics show that 60 per cent are employed workers 
or independent professional people. Whole families are moving and 
removal firms are booked for months ahead. The weekly loss is partly 
counterbalanced by 500 arrivals each week from West Germany, but the 
hard truth, says Crossman, is that "The closing off of East Berlin 
without interference from the West and with the use only of East 
German, as distinct from Russian, troops was a major Communist victory, 
which dealt West Berlin a deadly, possibly a fatal, blow. The 
gallant half-city is dying on its feet".   Another piece of 
evidence appears in a dispatch from Bonn in the <Observer> (London). 
Mark Arnold-Foster writes: "People are leaving [West Berlin] 
because they think it is dying. They are leaving so fast that 
the president of the West German Employers' Federation issued an 
appeal this week to factory workers in the West to volunteer for six 
months' front-line work in factories in West Berlin. Berlin's 
resilience is amazing, but if it has to hire its labor in the West the 
struggle will be hard indeed".   The handwriting is on the wall. 
The only hope for West Berlin lies in a compromise which will 
bring down the wall and reunite the city. State Department officials 
refusing to show their passes at the boundary, and driving two blocks 
into East Berlin under military escort, will not avail. Tanks lined 
up at the border will be no more helpful. The materials for compromise 
are at hand: <The Nation>, Walter Lippmann and other sober 
commentators (see Alan Clark on p& 367) have spelled them out again 
and again. A compromise will leave both sides without the glow of 
triumph, but it will save Berlin. Or the city can be a graveyard monument 
to Western intransigence, if that is what the West wants. 

#VACANCY# 

The removal of Stalin's body from the mausoleum he shared 
with Lenin to less distinguished quarters in the Kremlin wall is not 
unprecedented in history. It is, in fact, a relatively mild chastisement 
of the dead. A British writer, Richard Haestier, in a book, 
<Dead Men Tell Tales>, recalls that in the turmoil preceding 
the French Revolution the body of Henry /4,, who had died nearly 
180 years earlier, was torn to pieces by a mob. And in England, after 
the Restoration, the body of Cromwell was disinterred and hanged at 
Tyburn. The head was then fixed on a pole at Westminster, and the 
rest of the body was buried under the gallows.   Contemplating 
these posthumous punishments, Stalin should not lose all hope. In 1899, 
Parliament erected a statue to Cromwell in Westminster, facing 
Whitehall and there, presumably, he still stands. Nikita Khrushchev, 
however, has created yet another problem for himself. The Lenin tomb 
is obviously adequate for double occupancy, Moscow is a crowded city, 
and the creed of communism deplores waste. Who will take Stalin's 
place beside Lenin? There is Karl Marx, of course, buried in 
London. 
The Macmillan government might be willing to let him go, but he has 
been dead seventy-eight years and even the Soviet morticians could 
not make him look presentable. Who, then, is of sufficient stature to 
lodge with Lenin? Who but Nikita himself? Since he has just 
shown who is top dog, he may not be ready to receive this highest honor 
in the gift of the Soviet people. Besides, he can hardly avoid musing 
on the instability of death which, what with exhumations and rehabilitations, 
seems to match that of life. Suppose he did lie beside Lenin, 
would it be permanent? If some future Khrushchev decided to 
rake up the misdeeds of his revered predecessor, would not the factory 
workers pass the same resolutions applauding his dispossession? When 
a man is laid to rest, he is entitled to stay put. If Nikita buys 
a small plot in some modest rural cemetery, everyone will understand. 

#U THANT OF BURMA#

The appointment of U Thant of Burma as the 
U&N&'s Acting Secretary General- at this writing, the choice 
appears to be certain- offers further proof that in politics 
it is more important to have no influential enemies than to have influential 
friends. Mongi Slim of Tunisia and Frederick Boland of Ireland 
were early 
favorites in the running, but France didn't like the 
former and the Soviet Union would have none of the latter. With the 
neutralists maintaining pressure for one of their own to succeed 
Mr& 
Hammarskjold, U Thant emerged as the only possible candidate unlikely 
to be waylaid by a veto. What is interesting is that his positive 
qualifications for the post were revealed only as a kind of tail to 
his candidacy. In all the bitter in-fighting, the squabbles over election 
procedures, the complicated numbers game that East and West played 
on the assistant secretaries' theme, the gentleman from Burma showed 
himself both as a man of principle and a skilled diplomat. He has, 
moreover, another qualification which augurs well for the future. 
He is a Buddhist, which means that to him peace and the sanctity of 
human life are not only religious dogma, but a profound and unshakable 
<Weltanschauung>.   U Thant of course, will hold office until 
the spring of 1963, when Mr& Hammarskjold's term would have come 
to an end. Whether the compromises- on both sides- that made 
possible the interim appointment can then be repeated remains to be seen. 
Mr& Khrushchev's demand for a <troika> is dormant, not dead; 
the West may or not remain satisfied with the kind of neutralism 
that U Thant represents. In a sense, the showdown promised by Mr& 
Hammarskjold's sudden and tragic death has been avoided; no precedents 
have been set as yet; structurally, the U&N& is still 
fluid, vulnerable to the pressures that its new and enlarged membership 
are bringing to bear upon it. But at least the pessimists who believed 
that the world organization had plunged to its death in that plane 
crash in the Congo have been proved wrong. 

#TO THE HILLS, GIRLS# 

No one who has studied the radical Right can suppose that words are 
their sole staple in trade. These are mentalities which crave action- 
and they are beginning to get it, as Messrs& Salsich and Engh 
report on page 372. Even in areas where political connotations are 
(deliberately?) left vague, the spirit of vigilantism is spreading. 
<Friends>, a picture magazine distributed by Chevrolet dealers, describes 
a paramilitary organization of employees of the Gulf Telephone 
Company at Foley, Alabama. "If the day should ever come that 
foreign invaders swarm ashore along the Gulf Coast", the account reads, 
"they can count on heavy opposition from a group of commando-trained 
telephone employees- all girls. **h Heavily armed and mobilized 
as a fast-moving Civil Defense outfit, 23 operators and office 
personnel **h stand ready to move into action at a minute's notice". 
According to <Friends>, the unit was organized by John Snook, 
a former World War /2, commando who is vice president and general 
manager of the telephone company. The girls, very fetching in their 
uniforms, are shown firing rockets from a launcher mounted on a dump truck; 
they are also trained with carbines, automatic weapons, pistols, 
rifles and other such ladies' accessories.   This may be <opera 
bouffe> now, but it will become more serious should the cold war 
mount in frenzy. The country is committed to the doctrine of security 
by military means. The doctrine has never worked; it is not working 
now. The official military establishment can only threaten to use 
its nuclear arms; it cannot bring them into actual play. A more dangerous 
formula for national frustration cannot be imagined. As the civic 
temper rises, the more naive citizens begin to play soldier- but 
the guns are real. Soon they will begin to hunt down the traitors they 
are assured are in our midst. 
All false gods resemble Moloch, at least in the early phases of their 
careers, so it would be unreasonable to expect any form of idol-worship 
to become widespread without the accompaniment of human sacrifice. 
But there is reason in all things, and in this country the heathenish 
cult of the motor-car is exceeding all bounds in its demands. The annual 
butchery of 40,000 American men, women and children to satiate 
its blood-lust is excessive; a quota of 25,000 a year would be more 
than sufficient.   No other popular idol is accorded even that much 
grace. If the railroads, for example, regularly slaughtered 25,000 
passengers each year, the high priests of the cult would have cause 
to tremble for their personal safety, for such a holocaust would excite 
demands for the hanging of every railroad president in the United States. 
But by comparison with the railroad, the motor car is a relatively 
new object of popular worship, so it is too much to hope that it 
may be brought within the bounds of civilized usage quickly and easily.

Yet it is plainly time to make a start, and to be effective 
the first move should be highly dramatic, without being fanatical. Here, 
then, is what Swift would have called a modest proposal by way of 
a beginning. From next New Year's Day let us keep careful account 
of each successive fatality on the highways, publicizing it on all 
media of communication. To avoid suspicion of bigotry, let the hand 
of vengeance be stayed until the meat-wagon has picked up the twenty-five 
thousandth corpse; but let the twenty-five thousand and first butchery 
be the signal for the arrest of the 50 state highway commissioners.

Then let the whole lot be hanged in a public mass execution 
on July 4, 1963. The scene, of course, should be nine miles northwest 
of Centralia, Illinois, the geographical center of population according 
to the census. A special grandstand, protected by awnings from 
the midsummer sun of Illinois, should be erected for occupancy by 
honored guests, who should include the ambassadors of all those new African 
nations as yet not quite convinced that the United States is 
thoroughly civilized. The band should play the Rogues' March as a 
processional, switching to "Hail Columbia, Happy Land"! as 
the trap is sprung.   Independence Day is the appropriate date 
as a symbolical reminder of the American article of faith that governments 
are instituted among men to secure to them certain inalienable 
rights, the first of which is life, and when any government becomes subversive 
of that end, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish 
it. The highway system is an agency of government, and when it grinds 
up 40,000 Americans every year the government is destroying its own 
taxpayers, which is obviously a silly thing for any government to do.

Hanging the responsible officials would not abolish the government, 
but would emphasize its accountability for the lives of its individual 
citizens, which would certainly alter it, and definitely for 
the better. Moreover, the salubrious effects would not be exclusively 
political, but at least partially, and perhaps primarily social. It 
would challenge sharply not the cult of the motor car itself but some 
of its ancillary beliefs and practices- for instance, the doctrine 
that the fulfillment of life consists in proceeding from hither to yon, 
not for any advantage to be gained by arrival but merely to avoid the 
cardinal sin of stasis, or, as it is generally termed, staying put.

True, the adherents of staying put are now reduced to a minor, 
even a miniscule sect, and their credo, "Home-keeping hearts are 
happiest", is as disreputable as Socinianism. Nonetheless, although 
few in number they are a stubborn crew, as tenacious of life as the 
Hardshell Baptists, which suggests that there is some kind of vital 
principle embodied in their faith. Perhaps there is more truth than we 
are wont to admit in the conviction of that ornament of Tarheelia, 
Robert Ruark's grandfather, who was persuaded that the great curse 
of the modern world is "all this gallivantin'".   In any 
event, the yearly sacrifice of 40,000 victims is a hecatomb too large 
to be justified by the most ardent faith. Somehow our contemporary Moloch 
must be induced to see reason. Since appeals to morality, to humanity, 
and to sanity have had such small effect, perhaps our last recourse 
is the deterrent example. If we make it established custom that 
whenever butchery on the highways grows excessive, say beyond 25,000 
<per annum>, then <somebody> is going to hang, it follows that the 
more eminent the victim, the more impressive the lesson. To hang 50 
Governors might be preferable except that they are not directly related 
to the highways; so, all things considered, the highway commissioners 
would seem to be elected. 
As the new clouds of radioactive fallout spread silently and invisibly 
around the earth, the Soviet Union stands guilty of a monstrous crime 
against the human race. But the guilt is shared by the United States, 
Britain and France, the other members of the atomic club. Until 
Moscow resumed nuclear testing last September 1, the ~US and 
~UK had released more than twice as much radiation into the atmosphere 
as the Russians, and the fallout from the earlier blasts is still 
coming down. As it descends, the concentration of radioactivity builds 
up in the human body; for a dose of radiation is not like a flu 
virus which causes temporary discomfort and then dies. The effect of 
radiation is cumulative over the years- and on to succeeding generations. 
So, while we properly inveigh against the new poisoning, history 
is not likely to justify the pose of righteousness which some in the 
West were so quick to assume when Mr& Khrushchev made his cynical 
and irresponsible threat. Shock, dismay and foreboding for future 
generations were legitimate reactions; a holier-than-thou sermon was 
not.   On October 19, after the Soviets had detonated at least 
20 nuclear devices, Ambassador Stevenson warned the ~UN General 
Assembly that this country, in "self protection", might have 
to resume above-ground tests. More recently, the chairman of the Atomic 
Energy Commission, Dr& Glenn T& Seaborg, "admitted" 
to a news conference in Las Vegas, Nevada, that the ~US might 
fall behind Russia (he apparently meant in weapons development) if the 
Soviets continue to test in the atmosphere while we abstain. The 
trial balloons are afloat.   All of which makes it more imperative 
than ever that the biological and genetic effects of fallout be understood. 
But for the average citizen, unfortunately, this is one of science's 
worst-marked channels, full of tricky currents and unknown 
depths. The scientists, in and out of government, do not agree on some 
of the most vital points, at least publicly. On the one hand, the Public 
Health Service declared as recently as October 26 that present 
radiation levels resulting from the Soviet shots "do not warrant 
undue public concern" or any action to limit the intake of radioactive 
substances by individuals or large population groups anywhere in the 
~US. But the ~PHS conceded that the new radioactive particles 
"will add to the risk of genetic effects in succeeding generations, 
and possibly to the risk of health damage to some people in the United 
States". Then it added: "It is not possible to determine 
how extensive these ill effects will be- nor how many people will 
be affected".   Having hedged its bets in this way, ~PHS 
apparently decided it would be possible to make some sort of determination 
after all: "At present radiation levels, and even at somewhat 
higher levels, the additional risk is slight and very few people will 
be affected". Then, to conclude on an indeterminate note: "Nevertheless, 
if fallout increased substantially, or remained high for 
a long time, it would become far more important as a potential health 
hazard in this country and throughout the world".   Dr& Linus 
Pauling, a Nobel Prize winner in chemistry, has been less ambiguous, 
whether you choose to agree with him or not. After declaring, in 
an article last month in <Frontier> magazine, that the Russian testing 
"carries with it the possibility of the most tragic consequences 
of any action in the history of the world", he gave this estimate 
of the biologic and genetic consequences if the new Soviet shots totaled 
200 megatons:   The damage to human germ plasm would be 
such that in the next few generations 160,000 children around the world 
would be born with gross physical or mental defects. Long-lived carbon-14 
from the fusion process would cause four million embryonic, neonatal 
or childhood deaths and stillbirths over the next 20 generations, 
and between 200,000 and one million human beings now living would have 
their lives cut short by radiation-produced diseases such as leukemia. 
Most of these would be in the Northern Hemisphere, where the fallout 
is concentrating. Pauling's estimate of 200 megatons yield from 
the present series of Russian tests will probably turn out to be 
too high, but a total of 100 megatons is a distinct possibility.

The lack of scientific unanimity on the effects of radiation is due 
in part to insufficient data covering large population groups, from 
which agreed-on generalizations could be drawn. But more than one conscientious 
researcher has been inhibited from completely frank discussion 
of the available evidence by the less excusable fact that fallout 
has been made a political issue as well as a scientific problem. Its 
dangerous effects have been downgraded to the public by some who believe 
national security requires further testing. An illustration of this 
attitude is found in John A& McCone's letter to Dr& Thomas 
Lauritsen, reported in a note elsewhere in this issue of <The New 
Republic>.   To this day the Atomic Energy Commission shies 
away from discussing the health aspects of fallout. A recent study 
on radiation exposure by the ~AEC's division of biology and 
medicine stated: "The question of the biological effect **h of [radiation] 
doses is not considered" herein. Of course, the ~AEC 
is in a bind now. If it comes down too hard on the potential dangers 
of fallout, it will box the President on resuming atmospheric tests. 
So the Commission's announcements of the new Soviet shots have 
been confined to one or two bleak sentences, with the fission yield usually 
left vague.   Now, of course, that the Russians are the 
nuclear villains, radiation is a nastier word than it was in the mid-1950s, 
when the ~US was testing in the atmosphere. The prevailing 
official attitude then seemed to be that fallout, if not exactly good 
for you, might not be much worse than a bad cold. After a nuclear blast, 
one bureaucrat suggested in those halcyon days, about all you had 
to do was haul out the broom and sweep off your sidewalks and roof. Things 
aren't that simple anymore. Yet if Washington gets too indignant 
about Soviet fallout, it will have to do a lot of fast footwork 
if America decides it too must start pushing up the radiation count. 

#HOW MUCH FALLOUT WILL WE GET?#

As of October 25, the ~AEC 
had reported 24 shots in the new Soviet series, 12 of them in a megaton 
range, including a super bomb with a yield of 30 to 50 megatons 
(the equivalent of 30 million to 50 million tons of ~TNT); and 
President Kennedy indicated there were one or two more than those reported.

Assuming the lower figure for the big blast and one shot 
estimated by the Japanese at 10 megatons, a conservative computation 
is that the 24 announced tests produced a total yield of at least 60 
megatons. Some government scientists say privately that the figure 
probably is closer to 80 megatons, and that the full 50-megaton bomb 
that Khrushchev mentioned may still be detonated.   If the new 
Soviet series has followed the general pattern of previous Russian 
tests, the shots were roughly half fission and half fusion, meaning a 
fission yield of 30 to 40 megatons thus far. To this must be added the 
90 to 92 megatons of fission yield produced between the dawn of the 
atomic age in 1945 and the informal three-power test moratorium that 
began in November, 1958. 

#RESUMING ATMOSPHERIC TESTS#

ONE OF THE inescapable realities 
of the Cold War is that is has thrust upon the West a wholly new 
and historically unique set of moral dilemmas. The first dilemma was 
the morality of nuclear warfare itself. That dilemma is as much with 
us as ever. The second great dilemma has been the morality of nuclear 
testing, a dilemma which has suddenly become acute because of the present 
series of Soviet tests.   When this second dilemma first 
became 
obvious- during the mid to late '50's- the United States 
appeared to have three choices. It could have unilaterally abandoned 
further testing on the grounds of the radiation hazard to future generations. 
It could have continued testing to the full on the grounds 
that the radiation danger was far less than the danger of Communist 
world domination. Or it could have chosen to find- by negotiation- 
some way of stopping the tests without loss to national security. This 
third choice was in fact made.   With the resumption of Soviet 
testing and their intransigence at the Geneva talks, however, the 
hope that this third choice would prove viable has been shaken. Once 
again, the United States must choose. And once again, the 
choices 
are much the same. Only this time around the conditions are different 
and the choice is far harder.   The first choice, abandoning tests 
entirely, would not only be unpopular domestically, but would surely 
be exploited by the Russians. The second choice, full testing, has 
become even more risky just because the current Soviet tests have 
already dangerously contaminated the atmosphere. The third choice, negotiation, 
presupposes, as Russian behavior demonstrates, a great deal 
of wishful thinking to make it appear reasonable.   We take the 
position, however, that the third choice still remains the only sane 
one open to us. It is by no stretch of the imagination a happy choice 
and the arguments against it as a practical strategy are formidable. 
Its primary advantage is that it is a moral choice; one which, should 
it fail, will not have contaminated the conscience. That is the 
contamination we most fear. ##

LEAVING ASIDE the choice of unilateral 
cessation of tests as neither sane nor clearly moral, the question 
must arise as to why resumption of atmospheric tests on our part 
would not be a good choice. For that is the one an increasingly large 
number of prominent Americans are now proposing. In particular, Governor 
Nelson Rockefeller has expressed as cogently and clearly as 
anyone the case for a resumption of atmospheric tests.   Speaking 
recently in Miami, Governor Rockefeller said that "to assure 
the sufficiency of our own weapons in the face of the recent Soviet 
tests, we are now clearly compelled to conduct our own nuclear tests". 
Taking account of the fact that such a move on our part would be 
unpopular in world opinion, he argued that the responsibility of the United 
States is "to do, confidently and firmly, not what is popular, 
but what is right".   What was missing in the Governor's 
argument, as in so many similar arguments, was a premise which would 
enable one to make the ethical leap from what might be militarily desirable 
to what is right. The possibility, as he asserted, that the Russians 
may get ahead of us or come closer to us because of their tests 
does not supply the needed ethical premise- unless, of course, we have 
unwittingly become so brutalized that nuclear superiority is now taken 
as a moral demand.   Besides the lack of an adequate ethical 
dimension to the Governor's case, one can ask seriously whether our 
lead over the Russians in quality and quantity of nuclear weapons 
is so slight as to make the tests absolutely necessary. Recent statements 
by the President and Defense Department spokesmen have, to the 
contrary, assured us that our lead is very great. Unless the Administration 
and the Defense Department have been deceiving us, the facts 
do not support the assertion that we are "compelled" to resume atmospheric 
testing.   It is perfectly conceivable that a resumption 
of atmospheric tests may, at some point in the future, be necessary 
and even justifiable. But a resumption does not seem justifiable now. 
What we need to realize is that the increasingly great contamination 
of the atmosphere by the Soviet tests has radically increased our 
own moral obligations. We now have to think not only of our national 
security but also of the future generations who will suffer from any tests 
we might undertake. This is an ethical demand which cannot be evaded 
or glossed over by talking exclusively of weapon superiority or even 
of the evil of Communism.   Too often in the past Russian 
tactics have been used to justify like tactics on our part. There ought 
to be a point beyond which we will not allow ourselves to go regardless 
of what Russia does. The refusal to resume atmospheric testing 
would be a good start. 

#ECUMENICAL HOPES#

WHEN HIS Holiness 
Pope John /23, first called for an Ecumenical Council, and at the 
same time voiced his yearning for Christian unity, the enthusiasm 
among Catholic and Protestant ecumenicists was immediate. With good 
reason it appeared that a new day was upon divided Christendom. But 
as the more concrete plans for the work of the Council gradually became 
known, there was a rather sharp and abrupt disappointment on all sides. 
The Council we now know will concern itself directly only with 
the internal affairs of the Church.   As it has turned out, however, 
the excessive enthusiasm in the first instance and the loss of 
hope in the second were both wrong responses. Two things have happened 
in recent months to bring the Council into perspective: each provides 
a basis for renewed hope and joy.   First of all, it is now 
known that Pope John sees the renewal and purification of the Church 
as an absolutely necessary step toward Christian unity. Far from 
being irrelevant to the ecumenical task, the Pontiff believes that a 
revivified Church is required in order that the whole world may see Catholicism 
in the best possible light. Equally significant, Pope John 
has said that Catholics themselves bear some responsibility for Christian 
disunity. A major aim of the Council will be to remove as 
far as possible whatever in the Church today stands in the way of unity.

Secondly, a whole series of addresses and actions by the 
Pope and by others show that concern for Christian unity is still very 
much alive and growing within the Church. The establishment, by the 
Holy Father, of a permanent Secretariat for Christian Unity in 
1960 was the most dramatic mark of this concern. The designation of 
five Catholic theologians to attend the World Council of Churches 
assembly in New Delhi as "official" observers reverses the Church's 
earlier stand. The public appeal by the new Vatican Secretary 
of State, Cardinal Cicognani, for renewed efforts toward Eastern 
and Western reunion was still another remarkable act. Nor can one 
forget Pope John's unprecedented meeting with the Archbishop of Canterbury.

Augustin Cardinal Bea, the director of the Secretariate 
for Christian Unity, has expressed as directly as anyone the 
new spirit that pervades the Church's stance toward the Protestant 
and Orthodox Churches. Noting all the difficulties that stand in 
the way of reunion, he has said that they ought not to discourage anyone. 
For discouragement, or the temptation to abandon our efforts, "would 
show that one placed excessive trust in purely human means without 
thinking of the omnipotence of God, the irresistible efficacy of 
prayer, the action of Christ or the power of the Divine Spirit". 
Can any Christian fail to respond to these words? 

#THE BUDGET DEFICIT# 

THE ADMINISTRATION'S official budget review, which estimates 
a 6.9 billion dollar deficit for the current fiscal year, isn't 
making anyone happy. Certainly it isn't making the President happy, 
and he has been doing his apologetic best to explain how the budget 
got into its unbalanced condition, how he intends to economize wherever 
he can and how he hopes to do better next year.   We sympathize 
with Mr& Kennedy, but we feel bound to say that his budget review 
doesn't please us either, although for very different reasons. 
Furthermore, we find his defense of the unbalanced budget more dismaying 
than reassuring.   In the first place, a large part of the 
discrepancy between President Eisenhower's estimate of a 1.5 billion 
dollar surplus for the same period and the new estimate of an almost 
seven billion dollar deficit is the result of the outgoing President's 
farewell gift of a political booby-trap to his successor. The Eisenhower 
budget was simultaneously inadequate in its provisions and 
yet extravagant in its projections of revenue to be received.   The 
rest of the deficit is also easily understood. Four billion dollars 
of the spending increase is for defense, an expenditure necessitated 
by the penny-wise policies of the Eisenhhower Administration, quite 
apart from the recent crises in Berlin and elsewhere. Four hundred 
million dollars of the increase is for the expanded space program, a 
responsibility similarly neglected by Mr& Eisenhower. The farm program 
will cost an additional 1.5 billion, because of unusual weather 
factors, the Food for Peace program and other new measures. Anti-recession 
programs- aid for the unemployed, their children and for depressed 
areas- account for only 900 million of the 6.9 billion dollar 
deficit.   Our complaint is that in many crucial areas the Kennedy 
programs are not too large but too small, most seriously in regard 
to the conventional arms build-up and in aid and welfare measures. 
And yet Mr& Kennedy persists in trying to mollify the intransigents 
of the right with apologies and promises of "tightening up" and 
"economizing". We wish the President would remember that "fiscal 
responsibility" was the battle-cry of the party that lost the election. 
The party that won used to say something about a New Frontier. 

#ETHICS AND PEACE#

INTRODUCTION of the "dialogue" principle 
proved strikingly effective at the thirty-fourth annual meeting 
of the Catholic Association for International Peace in Washington 
the last weekend in October. Two of the principal addresses were delivered 
by prominent Protestants, and when the speaker was a Catholic, 
one "discussant" on the dais tended to be of another religious 
persuasion.   Several effects were immediately evident. Sessions 
devoted to "Ethics and Foreign Policy Trends", "Moral Principle 
and Political Judgment", "Christian Ethics in the Cold 
War" and related subjects proved to be much livelier under this 
procedure than if Catholics were merely talking to themselves. Usually 
questions from the floor were directed to the non-Catholic speaker 
or discussion leader.   In the earlier sessions there was plentiful 
discussion on the natural law, which Dr& William V& O'Brien 
of Georgetown University, advanced as the basis for widely acceptable 
ethical judgments on foreign policy. That Aristotelean-Thomistic 
principle experienced a thorough going-over from a number of the 
participants, but in the end the concept came to reassert itself. Speakers 
declared that Protestants often make use of it, if, perhaps, 
by some other name. A Lebanese Moslem told about its existence and 
application in the Islamic tradition as the "divine law", while a 
C&A&I&P& member who has been working in close association 
with delegates of the new U&N& nations told of its widespread recognition 
on the African continent. The impression was unmistakable 
that, whatever one may choose to call it, natural law is a functioning 
generality with a certain objective existence.   Another question 
that arose was the nature of the dialogue itself. The stimulus from 
the confrontation of philosophical systems involving certain differences 
was undeniable. It was expected that the comparison of different 
approaches to ethics would produce a better grasp of each other's 
positions and better comprehension of one's own. But a realization 
that each group has much of substance to learn from the other also developed, 
and a strong conviction grew that each had insights and dimensions 
to contribute to ethically acceptable solutions of urgent political 
issues.   One effect of the spirited give-and-take of these 
discussions was to focus attention on practical applications and the necessity 
of being armed with the facts: knowledge of the destructive 
force of even the tiniest "tactical" atomic weapon would have a bearing 
on judgments as to the advisability of its use- to defend Berlin, 
for example; the pervasive influence of ideology on our political 
judgments needs to be recognized and taken into due account; it 
is necessary to perceive the extent of foreign aid demanded by the Christian 
imperative. 
Everywhere I went in Formosa I asked the same question. I was searching 
for an accent of self-delusion or, even, of hypocrisy. I never 
found it among any of the Chinese with whom I spoke, though granted 
they were, almost all, members of the official family who, presumably, 
harbor official thoughts. But I questioned, also, professional soldiers, 
who would not easily be hypnotized by a septuagenarian's dreamy 
irredentism. Their answer was: it can be done, and we will do it. 
And then I put the question as pointedly as I could directly to Chiang 
Kai-shek: "In America", I said, "practically no one 
believes that you subjectively intend to re-enter the Mainland. What 
evidence is there of an objective kind that in fact your government 
proposes to do just that, and that it can be done"?   He smiled. 
(He always smiles- at least at visitors, I gather. He smiled 
also at a British bloke seated next to me, who asked the most asinine 
questions. I recalled sympathetically the Duke's complaint in Browning's 
"My Last Duchess". **h) He smiled, and said a word 
or two to the interpreter, who turned to me, "The President wonders 
where you are going after you leave Taipei"? That, I smarted, 
is a royal rebuff if ever there was one.   I answered the routine 
question about my itinerary, rather coolly. Chiang spoke again, 
this 
time at greater length. "The President says", the translator 
came in, "that the reason he asked you where you were going is because 
he hoped you would be visiting other areas in Southeast Asia, and 
that everywhere you went, you would seek the answer to your question. 
He says that if he were to express to you, once again, his own profound 
determination to go to the Mainland, and his faith that that return 
is feasible, he would merely sound redundant. So you yourself must 
seek these objective data, and come to your own conclusions. Any information 
we have here in Taiwan is at your disposal".   Fair 
enough. What are the relevant data? For every person on Taiwan, there 
are sixty in Mainland China. If the raw population figures are 
crucially relevant, then it is idle to think of liberation, as idle as 
to suppose that Poland might liberate Russia. Relative military manpower? 
Less than 60-1, but at least 6-1. The estimates vary widely 
on the strength of the Chinese army. Say four million. The armed 
forces of Taiwan are at a working strength of about 450,000, though 
a reserve potential twice that high is contemplated. Skill? Training? 
Morale? It is generally conceded that the Formosan air force 
is the best by far in Asia, and the army the best trained. The morale 
is very high.   Even so, it adds up to impossible odds, except 
that the question arises, On whose side would the Mainland Chinese 
army fight?   The miserable people of China, the largest cast 
ever conscripted to enact an ideological passion play, cannot themselves 
resist overtly. They think, perforce, of physical survival: 
everything else is secondary. But the army which Mao continues to feed 
well, where are its sympathies? The psychological strategists in 
Taiwan stress the great sense of family, cultivated in China over 
thousands of years. It has not been extirpated by ten years of Communist 
depersonalization. Every soldier in the army has, somewhere, relatives 
who are close to starvation. The soldiers themselves cannot stage 
a successful rebellion, it is assumed: but will their discontent 
spread to the officer class? The immediate families of the generals 
and the admirals are well fed: a despot does not economize on his 
generals. But there are the cousins and aunts and nephews. Their privations 
are almost beyond endurance. In behalf of what? Leninism-Marxism, 
as understood by Exegete Mao. To whom will the generals stay 
loyal? There is little doubt if they had a secret ballot, they 
would vote for food for their family, in place of ideological purity out 
on the farm. It is another question whether "they"- or a single 
general, off in a corner of China, secure for a few (galvanizing?) 
days at least from instant retaliation- will defy the Party. But 
the disposition to rebel is most definitely there. ##

But there 
must be a catalytic pressure. The military in Taiwan believe that 
the Communists have made two mistakes, which, together, may prove fatal. 
The first was the commune program, which will ensure agricultural 
poverty for years. The family is largely broken up; and where it 
is not, it is left with no residue, and the social meaning of this is 
enormous. For it is the family that, in China, has always provided social 
security for the indigent, the sick, the down-and-out members of 
the clan. Now the government must do that; but the government is 
left with no reserve granary, under the agricultural system it has ordained. 
Thus the government simultaneously undertook the vast burden of 
social security which had traditionally been privately discharged, and 
created a national scarcity which has engendered calamitous problems 
of social security.   The second mistake is Tibet. Tibet has 
historically served China as a buffer state. A friendly state, sometimes 
only semi-independent, but never hostile. China never tried to 
integrate Tibet by extirpating the people's religion and institutions. 
Red China is trying to do this, and she is not likely ever to succeed. 
Tibet is too vast, the terrain is too difficult. Tibet may bleed 
China as Algeria is bleeding France.   These continuing 
pressures, social, economic and military, are doing much to keep China 
in a heightening state of tension. The imposition of yet another pressure, 
a strong one, from the outside, might cause it to snap. ## 

The planners in Taiwan struck me as realistic men. They know that 
they must depend heavily on factors outside their own control. First 
and foremost, they depend on the inhuman idiocies of the Communist regime. 
On these they feel they can rely. Secondly, they depend on America's 
"moral cooperation" when the crucial moment arrives. They 
hope that if history vouchsafes the West another Budapest, we will 
receive the opportunity gladly. I remarked jocularly to the President 
that the future of China would be far more certain if he would invite 
a planeload of selected American Liberals to Quemoy on an odd 
day. He affected (most properly) not to understand my point. But he- 
and all of China- wear the scars of American indecisiveness, and 
he knows what an uncertain ally we are. We have been grand to Formosa 
itself- lots of aid, and, most of the time, a policy of support 
for the offshore islands. But our outlook has been, and continues to 
be, defensive. A great deal depends on the crystallization of Mr& 
Kennedy's views on the world struggle. The Free Chinese know that 
the situation on the Mainland is in flux, and are poised to strike. 
There is not anywhere on the frontiers of freedom a more highly mobilized 
force for liberation. 
The moment of truth is the moment of crisis. During the slow buildup, 
the essence of a policy or a man is concealed under embroidered details, 
fine words, strutting gestures. The crisis burns these suddenly 
away. There the truth is, open to eyes that are willing to look. The 
moment passes. New self-deceiving rags are hurriedly tossed on the too-naked 
bones.   A truth-revealing crisis erupted in Katanga for 
a couple of days this month, to be quickly smothered by the high pressure 
verbal fog that is kept on tap for such emergencies. Before memory, 
too, clouds over, let us make a note or two of what could be seen.

The measure was instantly taken, as always in such cases, of 
public men at many levels. One knows better, now, who has bone and 
who 
has jelly in his spine. But I am here concerned more with policy 
than with men. Public men come and go but great issues of policy remain.

Now, everyone knows- or knew in the week of December 10- 
that something had gone shockingly wrong with American foreign policy. 
The United States was engaged in a military attack on a peaceful, 
orderly people governed by a regime that had proved itself the most 
pro-Western and anti-Communist within any of the new nations- 
the only place in Africa, moreover, where a productive relationship 
between whites and blacks had apparently been achieved. Of course the 
fighting was officially under the auspices of the United Nations. But 
in the moment of truth everyone could see that the U&S& was 
in reality the principal.   The moment simultaneously revealed that 
in the crisis our policy ran counter to that of all our ~NATO 
allies, to the entire Western community. By our policy the West was- 
is- split.   But the key revelation is not new. The controlling 
pattern was first displayed in the Hungary-Suez crisis of November 
1956. It reappears, in whole or part, whenever a new crisis 
exposes the reality: in Cuba last spring (with which the Dominican 
events of last month should be paired); at the peaks of the nuclear 
test and the Berlin cycles; in relation to Laos, Algeria, South 
Africa; right now, with almost cartoon emphasis, in the temporally 
linked complex of Tshombe-Gizenga-Goa-Ghana. 

#WHAT THE MOMENTS 
REVEAL#

This prime element of the truth may be stated as follows: 
<Under prevailing policy, the U& S& can take the initiative 
against the Right, but cannot take the initiative against the Left>. 
It makes no difference what part of the world is involved, what form 
of regime, what particular issue. <The U& S& cannot take the 
initiative against the Left>. There is even some question whether 
the U& S& can any longer <defend> itself against an initiative 
by the Left.   We can attack Tshombe, but not Gigenza. No 
matter that Gizenga is Moscow's man in the Congo. No matter that 
it is his troops who rape Western women and eat Western men. No matter 
that the Katanga operation is strategically insane in terms of Western 
interests in Africa. (Even granted that the Congo should be 
unified, you don't protect Western security by <first> removing 
the pro-Western weight from the power equilibrium.)   We can force 
Britain and France out of the Suez, but we cannot so much as <try> 
to force the Russian tanks back from Budapest. We can mass our 
fleet against the Trujillos, but not against the Castros. We can 
vote in the ~UN against South African apartheid or Portuguese rule 
in Angola, but we cannot even introduce a motion on the Berlin Wall- 
much less, give the simple order to push the Wall down. We officially 
receive the anti-French, Moscow-allied Algerian 
~FLN, 
but we denounce the pro-Europe, anti-Communist ~OAS as criminal.

In the very week of our war against Katanga, we make a $133 
million grant to Kwame Nkrumah, who has just declared his solidarity 
with the Communist bloc, and is busily turning his own country into 
a totalitarian dictatorship. As our planes land the war materiel that 
kills pro-Western Katangans, we stand supinely bleating while Nehru's 
troops smash into a five-hundred-year-old district of our ~NATO 
ally, Portugal.   What explains this uni-directional paralysis? 
It is the consequence of the system of ideas that constitutes 
the frame of our international- and in some degree our domestic- 
policy. The Suez-Hungary crisis proves that this system was not 
invented by the new Administration, but only made more consistent and 
more active. 

#KEY TO THE PUZZLES#

Most immediately relevant to these 
episodes in Goa, Katanga and Ghana, as to the Suez-Hungary crisis 
before them, is the belief that the main theater of the world drama 
is the underdeveloped region of Asia, Africa and Latin America. 
From this belief is derived the practical orientation of our policy 
on the "uncommitted" ("neutralist", "contested") nations, 
especially on those whose leaders make the most noise- Nehru, Tito, 
Nkrumah, Sukarno, Betancourt, etc&. Our chief aim becomes that 
of finding favor in neutralist eyes.   If we grasp this orientation 
as a key, our national conduct in all of the events here mentioned 
becomes intelligible. And it becomes clear why in general we cannot 
take the initiative against the Left. 

#BROADWAY#


_THE UNORIGINALS_ To write a play, the dramatist once 
needed an idea plus the imagination, the knowledge of life and the 
craft to develop it. Nowadays, more and more, all he needs is someone 
else's book. To get started, he does not scan the world about him; 
he and his prospective producer just read the bestseller lists. So 
far this season, Broadway's premieres have included twice as many 
adaptations and imports as original American stage plays. _BEST FROM 
ABROAD._ Of straight dramas, there are <All the Way Home,> 
which owes much of its poetic power to the James Agee novel, <A Death 
in the Family; The Wall,> awkwardly based on the John Hersey 
novel; <Advise and Consent,> lively but shallow theater drawn 
from the mountainously detailed bestseller; <Face of a Hero> (closed), 
based on a Pierre Boulle novel. The only original works 
attempting 
to reach any stature: Tennessee Williams' disappointing domestic 
comedy, <Period of Adjustment,> and Arthur Laurents' clever 
but empty <Invitation to a March>. Clearly the most provocative 
plays are all imported originals- <A Taste of Honey,> by Britain's 
young (19 when she wrote it) Shelagh Delaney; <Becket,> 
by France's Jean Anouilh; <The Hostage> (closed), by Ireland's 
Brendan Behan.   Among the musicals, <Camelot> came 
from T& H& White's <The Once and Future King,> and novels 
were the sources of the less than momentous <Tenderloin> and <Do 
Re Mi. Wildcat> and <The Unsinkable Molly Brown> were originals, 
but pretty bad, leaving top honors again to an import- the 
jaunty and charmingly French <Irma La Douce>. The only other works 
at least technically original were dreary farces- <Send Me No 
Flowers> (closed), <Under the Yum-Yum Tree, Critic's Choice>. 
In the forthcoming <The Conquering Hero> and <Carnival,> 
Broadway is not even adapting books, but reconverting old movies 
(<Hail the Conquering Hero> and <Lili>). _DRY OF LIFE._ 
Originals 
are not necessarily good and adaptations are not necessarily 
bad. Some memorable plays have been drawn from books, notably <Life 
with Father> and <Diary of Anne Frank>. And particularly in the 
musical field, adaptations have long been the rule, from <Die Fledermaus> 
and <The Merry Widow> to <Oklahoma!> and <My Fair 
Lady>. As Critic Walter Kerr points out: "Adaptations, 
so long as they are good, still qualify as creative". And other defenders 
invariably argue that, after all, Shakespeare and Moliere were 
adapters too. The difference is that the masters took the bare frame 
of a plot and filled it with their own world; most modern adapters 
totally accept the world of a book, squeeze it dry of life, and add only 
one contribution of their own: stage technique.   The most 
frequent excuse for the prevalence of unoriginals and tested imports 
is increasing production expense- producers cannot afford to take chances. 
But that explanation is only partly true. Off-Broadway, where 
production is still comparatively cheap, is proving itself only slightly 
more original. Laudably enough, it is offering classics and off-beat 
imports, but last week only one U&S& original was on the boards, 
Robert D& Hock's stunning Civil War work, <Borak>. The 
real trouble seems to be the failing imagination of U&S& playwrights. 

#NIGHTCLUBS#


_THE COOCH TERPERS_ <He: "Come 
with me to the casbah". She: "By subway or cab"?> 
That exchange was not only possible but commonplace last week in Manhattan, 
as more and more New Yorkers were discovering 29th Street and 
Eighth Avenue, where half a dozen small nightclubs with names like 
Arabian Nights, Grecian Palace and Egyptian Gardens are the American 
inpost of belly dancing. Several more will open soon. Their 
burgeoning popularity may be a result of the closing of the 52nd Street 
burlesque joints, but curiously enough their atmosphere is almost always 
familial- neighborhood saloons with a bit of epidermis. 
The belly <boites,> with their papier-mache palm trees or hand-painted 
Ionic columns, heretofore existed mainly on the patronage of Greek 
and Turkish families. Customers often bring their children; between 
performances, enthusiastic young men from the audience will take 
the floor to demonstrate their own amateur graces. Except for the odd 
uptown sex maniac or an overeager Greek sailor, the people watch in 
calm absorption. Small, shirt-sleeved 
orchestras play in 2/4 or 4/4 time, 
using guitars, violins, and more alien instruments with names that 
would open Sesame: the oud, grandfather of the lute; the darbuka, 
a small drum with the treelike shape of a roemer glass; the def, 
a low-pitched tambourine. The girls sit quietly with the musicians, wearing 
prim dresses or plain, secretarial shifts, until it is time to 
go off to a back room and reappear in the spare uniform of the harem. 

_CONTINUUM OF MANKIND._ If a dancer is good, she suggests purely 
and 
superbly the fundamental mechanics of ancestry and progeny- the continuum 
of mankind. But a great many of what <Variety> calls the 
"cooch terpers" are considerably less cosmic than that. Each dancer 
follows the ancient Oriental pattern- she glides sideways with 
shoulders motionless while her stomach migrates, and, through breathing 
and muscle control, she sends ripples across her body to the fingertips 
and away to the far end of the room. This is done at varying speeds, 
ranging from the slow and fast <Shifte Telli> (a musical term 
meaning 
double strings) to the fastest, ecstatic <Karshilama> (meaning 
greetings or welcome). The New York dancers are highly eclectic, varying 
the pattern with all kinds of personal improvisations, back bends 
or floor crawls. But they do not strip. The striptease is crass; 
the belly dance leaves more to the imagination.   When a dancer 
does well, she provokes a quiet bombardment of dollar bills- although 
the Manhattan clubs prohibit the more cosmopolitan practice of slipping 
the tips into the dancers' costumes. With tips, the girls average 
between $150 and $200 a week, depending on basic salary. Although 
they are forbidden to sit with the customers, the dancers are sometimes 
proffered drinks, and most of them can bolt one down in mid-shimmy. 

_THE MELTING POT._ All over the country, belly clubs have never 
been bigger, especially in Detroit, Boston and Chicago, and even 
in small towns; one of the best dancers, a Turkish girl named Semra, 
works at a roadhouse outside Bristol, Conn&. The girls are kept 
booked and moving by several agents, notably voluble, black-bearded 
Murat Somay, a Manhattan Turk who is the Sol Hurok of the central 
abdomen. He can offer nine Turkish girls, plans to import at least 
15 more. But a great many of the dancers are more or less native. Sometimes 
they get their initial experience in church <haflis,> conducted 
by Lebanese and Syrians in the U&S&, where they dance with 
just as 
few veils across their bodies as in nightclubs.   As the 
girls come to belly dancing from this and other origins, the melting 
pot has never bubbled more intriguingly. Some Manhattan examples:

@ Jemela (surname: Gerby), 23, seems Hong Kong Oriental 
but has a Spanish father and an Indian mother, was born in America 
and educated at 
Holy Cross Academy and Textile High School, says 
she learned belly dancing at family picnics.   @ Serene (Mrs& 
Wilson), 23, was born in Budapest and raised in Manhattan. Daughter 
of a gypsy mother who taught her to dance, she is one of the few 
really beautiful girls in the New York casbah, with dark eyes and dark, 
waist-length hair, the face of an adolescent patrician and a lithe, 
glimmering body. Many belly dancers are married, but Serene is one 
of the few who will admit it.   @ Marlene (surname: Adamo), 
25, a Brazilian divorcee who learned the dance from Arabic friends 
in Paris, now lives on Manhattan's West Side, is about the best 
belly dancer working the casbah, loves it so much that she dances on 
her day off. She has the small, highly developed body of a prime athlete, 
and holds in contempt the "girls who just move sex".   @ 
Leila (Malia Phillips), 25, is a Greenwich Village painter of 
Persianesque miniatures 
who has red hair that cascades almost to her ankles. 
A graduate of Hollywood High School, she likes to imagine herself, 
as she takes the floor, "a village girl coming in to a festival".

@ Gloria (surname: Ziraldo), circa 30, who was born 
in Italy and once did "chorus work" in Toronto, has been around 
longer than most of the others, wistfully remembers the old days 
when 
"we used to get the seamen from the ships, you know, with big turtleneck 
sweaters and handkerchiefs and all. But the ships are very slow 
now, and we don't get so many sailors any more". The uptown crowd 
has moved in, and what girl worth her seventh veil would trade a turtleneck 
sweater for a button-down collar? 

#A SHORT, TORMENTED SPAN#

Of the handful of painters that Austria 
has produced in the 20th century, only one, Oskar Kokoschka, is widely 
known in the U&S&. This state of unawareness may not last 
much longer. For ten years a small group of European and U&S& 
critics has been calling attention to the half-forgotten Austrian 
expressionist 
Egon Schiele, who died 42 years ago at the age of 28. The 
critics' campaign finally inspired the first major U&S& exhibit 
of Schiele's works. The show has been to Boston and Manhattan, 
will in time reach Pittsburgh and Minneapolis. Last week it opened 
at the J& B& Speed Museum in Louisville, at the very moment 
that a second Schiele exhibit was being made ready at the Felix Landau 
gallery in Los Angeles.   Schiele's paintings are anything 
but pleasant. His people (<see color>) are angular and knobby-knuckled, 
sometimes painfully stretched, sometimes grotesquely foreshortened. 
His colors are dark and murky, and his landscapes and cityscapes 
seem swallowed in gloom. But he painted some of the boldest and 
most original pictures of his time, and even after nearly half a century, 
the tense, tormented world he put on canvas has lost none of its 
fascination. _THE DEVIL HIMSELF._ The son of a railway stationmaster, 
Schiele lived most of his childhood in the drowsy Danubian town 
of Tulln, 14 miles northwest of Vienna. He was an emotional, lonely 
boy who spent so much time turning out drawings that he did scarcely 
any schoolwork. When he was 15, his parents finally allowed him to attend 
classes at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna. Even there he 
did not last for long. Cried one professor after a few months of Student 
Schiele's tantrums and rebellion: "The devil himself must 
have defecated you into my classroom"!   For a while his 
work was influenced deeply by the French impressionists, and by the patterned, 
mosaic-like paintings of Gustav Klimt, then the dean of Austrian 
art. Gradually Schiele evolved a somber style of his own- 
and he had few inhibitions about his subject matter. His pictures were 
roundly denounced as "the most disgusting things one has ever seen 
in Vienna". He himself was once convicted of painting erotica and 
jailed for 24 days- the first three of which he spent desperately trying 
to make paintings on the wall with his own spittle. For years he 
wore hand-me-down suits and homemade paper collars, was even driven 
to scrounging for cigarette butts in Vienna's gutters. Drafted 
into 
the Austrian army, he rebelliously rejected discipline, wangled a Vienna 
billet, went on painting. It was not until the last year of his 
life that he had his first moneymaking show. _MELANCHOLY OBSESSION._ 
The unabashed sexuality of so many of this paintings was not the 
only 
thing that kept the public at bay: his view of the world was one of 
almost unrelieved tragedy, and it was too much even for morbid-minded 
Vienna. He was obsessed by disease and poverty, by the melancholy of 
old age and the tyranny of lust. The children he painted were almost 
always in rags, his portraits were often ruthless to the point of ugliness, 
and his nudes- including several self-portraits- were stringy, 
contorted and strangely pathetic. The subject he liked most was the 
female body, which he painted in every state- naked, half-dressed, 
muffled to the ears, sitting primly in a chair, lying tauntingly on a 
bed or locked in an embrace. 
THE MOST surprising thing about the Twenty-second Congress of 
the Soviet Communist Party is that it <was> surprising- perhaps 
quite as much, in its own way, as the Twentieth Congress of 1956, which 
ended with that famous "secret" report on Stalin. The publication 
last July of the party's Draft Program- that blueprint for 
the "transition to communism"- had led the uninitiated to suppose 
that this Twenty-second Congress would be a sort of apotheosis 
of the Khrushchev regime, a solemn consecration of ideas which had, in 
fact, been current over the last three or four years (i&e&, since 
the defeat of the "anti-party group") in all theoretical party 
journals. These never ceased to suggest that if, in the eyes of Marx 
and Lenin "full communism" was still a very distant ideal, the establishment 
of a Communist society had now, under Khrushchev, become 
an "immediate and tangible reality". It seems that Khrushchev 
himself took a very special pride in having made a world-shaking contribution 
to Marxist doctrine with his Draft Program (a large part of 
his twelve-hour speech at the recent Congress was, in fact, very largely 
a rehash of that interminable document). He and other Soviet leaders 
responsible for the document were proud of having brought forward 
some new formulas, such as the early replacement of the dictatorship 
of the proletariat by an "All People's State", and also of having 
laid down the lines for a much greater "democratization" of 
the whole hierarchy of Soviets, starting with the Supreme Soviet itself. 
Their plan for rotation of leaders promised a salutary blow at 
"bureaucracy" and would enable "the people" to take a more direct 
and active part in running the country. Also, elections would be 
more democratic; there might even be two or more candidates for voters 
to choose from.   No doubt, there was still a lot in the Draft 
Program- and in Khrushchev's speech- which left many points 
obscure. Was it the party's intention, for example, to abolish gradually 
the <kolkhoz> system and replace it by uniformly wage-earning 
<sovkhozes>, i&e&, state farms (which were, moreover, to be progressively 
"urbanized")? As we know, the Soviet peasant today 
still very largely thrives on being able to sell the produce grown on 
his private plot; and it is still very far from certain how valid 
the party's claim is that in "a growing number of <kolkhozes>" 
the peasants are finding it more profitable, to surrender their private 
plots to the 
<kolkhoz> and to let the latter be turned into something 
increasingly like a state farm. If one follows the reports of the 
Congress, one finds that there still seems considerable uncertainty 
in the minds of the leaders themselves about what exactly to do in this 
matter.   The Draft Program was interesting in other respects, 
too. It contained, for example, a number of curious admissions about 
the peasants, who enjoy no sickness benefits, no old-age pensions, 
no paid holidays; they still benefit far less than the "other" 50 
per cent of the nation from that "welfare state" which the Soviet 
Union so greatly prides itself on being. ##

OVER ALL these 
fairly awkward problems Khrushchev was to skate rather lightly; 
and, though he repeated, over and over again, the spectacular figures 
of industrial and agricultural production in 1980, the "ordinary" 
people in Russia are still a little uncertain as to how "communism" 
is really going to work in practice, especially in respect of food. 
Would agriculture progress as rapidly as industry? This was something 
on which K& himself seemed to have some doubts; for he kept 
on threatening that he would "pull the ears" of those responsible 
for agricultural production. And, as we know, the Virgin Lands are 
<not> producing as much as Khrushchev had hoped.   One cannot 
but wonder whether these doubts about the success of Khrushchev's 
agricultural policy have not at least something to do with one of the 
big surprises provided by this Congress- the obsessive harping on the 
crimes and misdeeds of the "anti-party group"- Molotov, Malenkov, 
Kaganovich and others- including the eighty-year-old Marshal 
Voroshilov. Molotov, in particular, is being charged with all kinds 
of sins- especially with wanting to cut down free public services, 
to increase rents and fares; in fact, with having been against <all> 
the more popular features of the Khrushchev "welfare state". 
The trouble with all these doctrinal quarrels is that we hear only one 
side of the story: what, in the secret councils of the Kremlin, 
Molotov had <really> proposed, we just don't know, and he has had 
no chance to reply. ##

BUT ONE cannot escape the suspicion 
that all this non-stop harping on the misdeeds of the long liquidated 
"anti-party" group would be totally unnecessary if there were not, 
inside the party, some secret but genuine opposition to Khrushchev on 
vital doctrinal grounds, on the actual methods to be employed in the 
"transition to communism" and, last but not least, on foreign policy.

The whole problem of "peaceful coexistence and peaceful 
competition" with the capitalist world is in the very center of this 
Congress. Mikoyan declared:   "Molotov altogether rejects 
the line of peaceful coexistence, reducing this concept merely to the 
state of peace or rather, the absence of war at a given moment, and 
to a denial of the possibility of averting a world war. His views, in 
fact, coincide with those of foreign enemies of peaceful coexistence, 
who look upon it merely as a variant of the "cold war" or of an "armed 
peace"".   One cannot help wondering whether Molotov 
and the rest of the "anti-party group" are not being used as China's 
whipping-boys by Khrushchev and his faithful followers. For 
something, clearly, has gone very, very seriously wrong in Soviet-Chinese 
relations, which were never easy, and have now deteriorated.

The effect of Chou En-lai's clash with Khrushchev, together 
with the everlasting attacks on Molotov + Co&, has shifted the whole 
attention of the world, including that of the Soviet people, from 
the "epoch-making" twenty-year program to the present Soviet-Chinese 
conflict. Not only, as we know, did Chou En-lai publicly treat 
Khrushchev's attack on Albania as "something that we cannot consider 
as a serious Marxist-Leninist approach" to the problem (i&e&, 
as something thoroughly dictatorial and "undemocratic"), but 
the Albanian leaders went out of their way to be openly abusive to 
Khrushchev, calling him a liar, a bully, and so on. It is extremely 
doubtful that the handful of Albanians who call themselves Communists 
could have done this without the direct approval of their Chinese friends. 
The big question is whether, in the name of a restored Chinese-Soviet 
solidarity, the Chinese will choose to persuade the Albanians 
to present their humble apologies to Khrushchev- or get rid of 
Enver Hoxa. These seem about the only two ways in which the "unhappy 
incident" can now be closed.   But Albania is merely a symptom 
of a real malaise between China and Russia. There are other 
symptoms. Khrushchev, for all his bombastic prophecies about the inevitable 
decay of capitalism, is genuinely favorable to "peaceful coexistence" 
and would like, above all, the Berlin and German problems 
to be settled peacefully; he knows that he was never more popular than 
at the time of the Russo-American "honeymoon" of 1959. But 
it seems that pressures against him are coming from somewhere- in the 
first place from China, but perhaps also from that "China Lobby" 
which, I was assured in Moscow nearly two years ago, exists on 
the quiet inside the party. To these people, solidarity and unity with 
China should be the real basis of Russia's future policy. And the 
Chinese, as the Albanian incident shows, have strong suspicions that 
Khrushchev is anxious to secure a "shameful" peace with the West. 
The fact that China (which is obsessed by Formosa- to Khrushchev 
a very small matter) should be supported by North Korea and North 
Vietnam is highly indicative. And one cannot but wonder whether 
Marshal Malinovsky, 
who was blowing hot and cold, exalting peace but 
also almost openly considering the possibility of preventive war against 
the West, wasn't trying to keep the Chinese quiet. And this 
brings us inevitably to the 30- 
or 50-megaton bomb. Was not this dropped 
primarily in order to "appease" the Chinese- especially after 
"Khrushchev's "humiliating" surrender to the West in canceling 
the German peace-treaty deadline of December 31?   What 
does it all add up to? Indications are that Khrushchev (and, with 
him, the bulk of the Soviet people) favor peaceful coexistence and (with 
the exception of Berlin) the maintenance of the <status quo> in 
the world. The Chinese, North Vietnamese and North Koreans, on 
the other hand, feel that, militarily, Russia is strong enough to support 
them in the "just wars of liberation" they would like to embark 
on before long: with China attacking Formosa and the North Koreans 
and North Vietnamese liberating the southern half of their respective 
countries.   Perhaps Khrushchev is in a more difficult 
position than any since 1957, when the "anti-party group" nearly 
liquidated him. He seems strong enough inside the party to cope with 
any internal opposition; but if he is up against China's crusading 
spirit in world affairs, he is going to be faced with the most agonizing 
choice in his life. He may support China (but he won't); he 
may break with China (which would be infernally difficult and perhaps 
disastrous), or he may succeed, by all kinds of dangerous concessions, 
in persuading China to be patient. The next days may show where things 
stand. 
ON a misty Sunday morning last month, a small band of militant 
anti-Communists called the Minutemen held maneuvers in a foggy field 
about fifteen miles east of here. Eleven men, a woman and a teen-age 
boy tramped over cold, damp, fog-enshrouded ground during a two-hour 
field drill in the problems of guerrilla warfare.   To the average 
American, this must sound like an incredible tale from a Saturday 
night ~TV movie. But to the Minutemen, this is a serious business. 
They feel that the United States is engaged in a life-and-death 
struggle with communism for survival and world supremacy. They feel 
that World War /3, has already begun, and they are setting themselves 
up as a "last line of defense" against the Communist advance.

Their national leader, Robert Bolivar DePugh of Norborne, 
Mo&, says the Minutemen believe that guerrilla tactics are best 
suited to defeat the Red onslaught. In their maneuvers last month, 
they wore World War /2, camouflage garb and helmets, and carried unloaded 
~M-1 rifles.   The maneuvers were held "in secret" 
after a regional seminar for the Minutemen, held in nearby Shiloh, 
Ill&, had been broken up the previous day by deputy sheriffs, who had 
arrested regional leader Richard Lauchli of Collinsville, Ill&, 
and seized four operative weapons, including a Browning machine gun, 
two Browning automatic rifles and an ~M-4 rifle.   Undismayed 
by this contretemps, a small band of the faithful gathered at Lauchli's 
home at 6:30 A&M& the next day, put on their uniforms, 
and headed for a farm several miles away. A 60 mm& mortar and a 
57 mm& 
recoilless rifle owned by Lauchli were brought along. The mortar 
was equipped with dummy shells and the recoilless rifle was deactivated.

After a tortuous drive in an open truck and a World War 
/2, army jeep down soggy trails, the band arrived at a small clearing 
squeezed between a long, low ridge and a creek-filled gully. Here 
the two leaders, DePugh and Lauchli, hastened to put the group 
through its paces.   The Minutemen were instructed in the use 
of terrain for concealment. They were shown how to advance against an 
enemy outpost atop a cleared ridge. They practiced movement behind a 
smoke screen laid by smoke grenades; and they attempted a skirmish 
line of advance against a camouflaged enemy encampment. Eleven dummy 
rounds were fired by Lauchli in a demonstration of rapid-fire mortar 
shooting.   Mrs& DePugh, the mother of five children and an 
active member of her husband's organization, participated in all the 
exercises.   There were no "casualties", but the "guerrillas" 
admitted to being "a little tired" when the leaders called 
a halt at 9 A&M& to enable out-of-town members to catch a plane. 

#TENURE AS CRITERION#

I would like to add one more practical reform 
to those mentioned by Russell Kirk [Dec& 16]. It has to do 
with teachers' salaries and tenure.   Next September, after receiving 
a degree from Yale's Master of Arts in Teaching Program, 
I will be teaching somewhere- that much is guaranteed by the present 
shortage of mathematics teachers. I will also be underpaid. The 
amazing thing is that this too is caused by the dearth of teachers. Teaching 
is at present a sellers' market; as a result buyers, the 
public, must be satisfied with second-rate teachers. But this is not 
the real problem; the rub arises from the fact that teachers are usually 
paid on the basis of time served rather than quality. Hence all 
teachers, good and bad, who have been teaching for a given number of 
years are paid the same salary. I am firmly convinced that considering 
the average quality of teachers in this country, the profession is grossly 
overpaid.   It follows that teachers as a group cannot expect 
any marked salary increases; there is a limit to how much the public 
will pay for shoddy performance. The only hope which good teachers 
have for being paid their due is to stop dragging the dead weight 
of poor teachers up the economic ladder with them. The only hope which 
the public has for getting good teachers is to pay teachers on the basis 
of merit rather than tenure. Here, as in all sectors of the economy, 
quality and justice are both dependent on the right of the individual 
to deal directly with his employer if he so chooses. @ 

#LOSS 
OF INITIATIVE#

On the eve of the "great debate" on the proposal 
to give the President broad powers to make across-the-board tariff concessions 
which could practically bring us into the Atlantic Community, 
we should face the alternatives on this proposition. What we will 
be sacrificing in any such arrangement will be our power to be <selective> 
which is contained in the reciprocal trade principle under which 
we now operate. Without this power we lay open any American industry 
which the Europeans may find it economically profitable to destroy 
to the will of others. It is this loss of initiative in how we conduct 
our <economy> which may lead to the loss of initiative in how we 
conduct our <political> affairs. @ 

#A BRIEF FOR THE NEGATIVE# 

I disagree with Mr& Burnham's position on the Common Market 
[Nov& 18] as a desirable organization for us to join. For him to 
ignore the political consequences involved in an Atlantic Union of 
this kind is difficult to understand. The pressure for our entry to 
the Common Market is mounting and we will proceed towards this amalgamated 
trade union by way of a purely "economic thoroughfare", or 
garden path, with the political ramifications kept neatly in the background. 
The appeal is going to be to the pocketbook and may be very convincing 
to those who do not see its relation to political and legal, 
as well as economic, self-rule. In entering this union we will be surrendering 
most, if not all, of our economic autonomy to international 
bodies such as the Atlantic Institute (recently set up) or the O&E&C&D&, 
I&M&F& and others. To think that we can merely 
relinquish our economic autonomy without giving up our political 
or legal autonomy is wishful thinking.   If it is not enough that 
all of our internationalist One Worlders are advocating that we join 
this market, I refer you to an article in the <New York Times>' 
magazine section [Nov& 12, 1961], by Mr& Eric Johnston, 
entitled "We Must Join the Common Market". He says: "It 
has swept aside petty nationalisms, age-old rivalries, and worn-out 
customs". Referring to Britain, he says, "We see a nation that 
traditionally values sovereignty above all else willing to give up its 
economy, placing this authority in Continental hands". **h Since 
the goal of our international planners is a World Government, this Atlantic 
Community would mark a giant step in that direction for, once 
American economic autonomy is absorbed, a larger grouping is a question 
of time. Frankly, it is being very cleverly done for, in a sense, 
they have us over a barrel. Listen to what Mr& Johnston has to 
say: "Consider the savage wounds that isolationism would inflict. 
**h We would lose our export markets and deny ourselves the imports 
we need. We would be crippled by reduced output, industrial decline, 
widespread unemployment".   But the solution to this dilemma 
is not the incorporation of the United States into an Atlantic Community 
or "economic empire", but merely what libertarians like Henry 
Hazlitt and Ludwig von Mises have been arguing for years: an 
end to government regulations, an end to government competition in industry, 
and a realistic depreciation allowance for industry. Create a 
free market here, give us a sound, debt-free money system, and we'll 
compete with anyone, Europe and Asia combined. In short, get this 
governmental monstrosity off our backs and we won't have to worry about 
European competition or Communism either. If we want to preserve 
our sovereignty, this is the way to do it; not acquiesce to an international 
planning board. If we go into this Common Market, we might 
just as well stop talking about Constitutional guarantees, Connally 
Amendments or, for that matter, conservatism in general. @

<We welcome this able brief for the negative as part of a many-sided 
discussion of the Atlantic Common Market which> ~NR <will 
be continuing in our pages>.   -ED&. 

#MENTAL TELEPATHY?# 

The Peiping Chinese were the only major silver seller in the 
world markets who stopped selling the metal on Monday morning, November 
27, anticipating by two days the announcement of the U&S& 
Treasury that the pegged offering price will be removed. @ 

#A PROFESSOR 
AND THE ARMY#

In 1954 I was drafted and after serving two 
years honorably on Active Duty I was not required to participate in 
any further Army Reserve activities. Now, more than five years later, 
I cannot in any realistic sense be called a trained soldier. But, 
in spite of this, I, at present a man 31 years of age and a College 
Professor, have been recalled "by direction of the President" 
to report on November 25th to Fort Devens, Massachusetts, for another 
twelve months of Active Duty as an ~Sp 4 (the equivalent of a 
~PFC). Today, seven years after the date of my initial induction 
as a draftee, I am Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Science 
at St& Michael's College. For, after leaving the Army in 1956, 
I spent five years in Graduate School first at Boston College 
and then at the University of Toronto. This time, added to that which 
I had already spent in school prior to my induction in 1954, makes 
a total of twenty-two (22) years of education.   The possibility 
of recall into the Army is part of the price that a modern American 
has to pay for the enviable heritage of liberty which he enjoys. With 
this no loyal citizen can quarrel. However, it seems axiomatic that 
the government has an obligation "to exercise its mandate reasonably, 
equitably and with full regard for the disruptions which it inevitably 
causes". In my own case, I submit that such reasonable and fair 
exercise is woefully lacking. Taken back into the Army now as an 
~Sp 4, I am leaving 110 college students whose teacher I am. (A 
wry sidelight on this is that most of my students have deferments from 
the draft in order to attend my classes.) At this late date, it is 
impossible for St& Michael's College to find a suitable replacement 
for me. Even apart from the fact that now at the age of 31 my personal 
life is being totally disrupted for the second time for no very 
compelling reason- I cannot help looking around at the black leather 
jacket brigades standing idly on the street corners and in the taverns 
of every American city and asking myself if our society has gone 
mad. @ 

#MERCENARY: TERM OF HONOR?#

In news broadcasts I consistently 
hear the foreign volunteers fighting in the Katanga Army 
referred to as mercenaries. This confuses me no end. If the Hessian 
troops sent here willy-nilly by the Hessian Government to fight for 
England in the 1770's were mercenaries, what shall we call the ~UN 
troops sent to the Congo willy-nilly by <their> governments to 
fight for the United Nations? If the ~UN troops are not mercenaries 
then the Hessians were not mercenaries either. And if the foreigners 
fighting in the Katanga Army are mercenaries then Lafayette 
and von Steuben were mercenaries too, as were also the members of the 
Lafayette Escadrille in the early part of World War /1, and of 
Chennault's Flying Tigers in the early days of World War /2,. 
@ 

#MODERN POSTAL SLOGAN#

It doesn't take a Gore Vidal to tell you 
what's wrong with Cherokee Textile's slogan ["Pitney-Bowes 
Objects", July 1]. It's an eighteenth-century negative, man! 
Suggest the following twenty-first-century amendment: @ By moving 
the term "Republic" to lower case, substituting the modern 
phrase "move ahead" for the stodgy "keep", and by using the Postmaster's 
name on every envelope (in caps, of course, with the "in 
spite" as faded as possible), the slogan cannot fail. @ 

#THE 
IMPENDING DEATH OF POPE#

In the issue of March 5, 1960 you had an 
excellent editorial which said:   "On trial in Jakarta for 
having flown for the Indonesian anti-Communist insurgents, 
U&S& 
pilot Alan Lawrence Pope boldly told the court that in supporting 
the freedom fighters, he was actually defending the sovereignty and independence 
of Indonesia. Facing a prosecution which has demanded the 
death penalty, he said: 'I have participated in the war against 
Communism in Korea and at Dienbienphu, and I have helped in the evacuation 
of North Vietnamese to the free world. I have done all this 
for the freedom of the individuals concerned and also for the states 
which have been threatened by Communist domination'. At least in 
Indonesia, Khrushchev found an American proud to be at total war with 
Communism"!   Since then nothing has happened to save the 
life of Pope. I found recently a very small article in the <New 
York Times:>   "U&S& 
Flier loses Plea. Indonesia Court 
Upholds Pope's Death Sentence.- Indonesia Military Supreme 
Court has confirmed the death sentence passed on Alan Lawrence 
Pope, an American pilot. Pope was convicted last year of having aided 
North Celebes rebels by flying bombing missions. He has been in 
prison since May, 1958, when his aircraft was shot down over Moluccas. 
He may appeal to President Sukarno for clemency".   As 
we see, Pope may appeal to President Sukarno, Khrushchev's friend, 
for clemency. This possibility is anything but reassuring. 
The Eleanor Roosevelt Tractor Committee acts on behalf of the Cuban 
freedom fighters. But who will act now and immediately to save the 
life of Alan Pope? Are tractors available for him? Does anybody 
think of saving the life of an anti-Communist American pilot? 
@ 

#AN ANALOGY#

A few days before I saw your mention of what Texas 
Liberals were doing to promote "Louis Capet" ["The Week", 
June 3], another analogy had occurred to me.   Consider 
this table: _1._ Louis /14,- ~FDR. "**h With no strong 
men and no parliament to dispute his will, he <was> the government". 

_2._ Regency- Truman. "A 'dust-settling' period 
of decadence and decline". _3._ Louis /15,- Eisenhower. 
"**h he opened his mouth, said little, and thought not at all". _4._ 
Louis /16,- Kennedy. "**h not <completely> virtuous, 
but <completely> incompetent".   And Marie Antoinette- Jacqueline 
Bouvier. "**h the beautiful and light-hearted". _5._ 
French Revolution- Conservative Revolution?   Truly, 
that Liberals should choose Louis /14, as a bogey-symbol of conservatism 
is grotesquely ironic, considering the Louis /14, character 
of their Grand Monarque, ~FDR: not only in his accretion of absolute 
power and personal deification, (<le roi gouverne par lui meme>), 
but in the disastrous effects of his spending and war policies.

In defeating "Louis Capet", John Tower's victory in 
Texas signals, once again, the end of the divine right of Liberalism. 

#CONFRONTATION#

IT SEEMS TO ME that N&C&, in his editorial 
"Confrontation" [~SR, Mar& 25], has hit upon the real 
problem that bothers all of us in a complex world: how do we retain 
our personal relationship with those who suffer? This affects us 
all intimately, and can leave us hopeless in the face of widespread distress. 
I know of no other solution than the one N&C& proposes- 
to do what we can for each sufferer as he confronts us, hoping that 
this will spread beyond him to others at some time and some place. Never 
have I seen this expressed so clearly and so sympathetically. @

THANK YOU for the illustrated editorial "Confrontation". 
It is both great writing and profound religion. @   N&C& 
HAS SAID something important so well that this preacher 
will many times be tempted to quote the whole piece. @   I 
FEEL THAT N&C& hit the very core of our existence in the editorial 
"Confrontation". Personally, it meant a great deal; my 
only hope is that it will be shared by many, many others. @   "CONFRONTATION" 
should fortify us all, whether in Southeast 
Asia or the U&S&. @   CONGRATULATIONS TO N&C& 
for successfully delving into the heart of the problems that face the 
Peace Corps. I concur that it is necessary for Americans to have 
a confrontation of the situation existing in foreign lands. It would 
be heartbreaking to see idealism, and hence effective leadership, thwarted 
by the poverty and hardship which young Americans will run into. 
@   THE EDITORIAL "Confrontation" was certainly direct 
in its appear to those of us living here in America. I personally 
gained strength from it. Thanks for continuing to capture the attention 
and uncover so many areas of need in this amazing world. @

N&C&'s EDITORIAL "Confrontation" is a stunning piece 
of writing. I would hope that Sargent Shriver will encourage everyone 
entering the Peace Corps to read it. The important people to 
humanity are not the Khrushchevs and the Castros **h but the Schweitzers 
and the Dooleys, and the others like them whose names we will 
never know. @   EDITOR'S NOTE: <Reprints of "Confrontation" 
will be included among the material to be distributed to 
members of the Peace Corps. A Peace Corps official described the 
editorial as "precisely the message we need to communicate to the 
men and women who will soon be Peace Corps volunteers>". 

#IMPROPER 
BOSTONIAN?#

F& L& LUCAS'S article in ~SR's 
April 1 issue seemed to be a very fair and objective analysis of the 
New English Bible. I certainly hope this will be the impression left 
in the minds of readers, rather than the comment by Cleveland Amory 
in his FIRST OF THE MONTH column. It is blind, fundamentalist 
dogmatism to say, "Messing around with the King James version 
**h seems to us a perilous sport at best". @ 

#FACTS IN FOCUS# 

LESTER MARKEL is on the right track in his article "Interpretation 
of Interpretation" 
[~SR, Mar& 11]. The current stereotype 
of straight news reporting was probably invaluable in protecting 
the press and its readers from pollution by that combination of doctored 
fact, fancy, and personal opinion called yellow journalism which flourished 
in this country more than a generation ago.   We don't 
need this type of protection any more. The public is now armed with 
sophistication and numerous competing media. Besides, there are no 
longer enough corruptible journalists about.   The accepted method 
of writing news has two major liabilities. First, it does not communicate. 
A reporter restricted to the competing propaganda statements 
of both sides in a major labor dispute, for instance, is unable to tell 
his readers half of what he knows about the causes of the dispute. 
Second, it subjects the news to distortion by the unscrupulous. The 
charges by the late junior Senator from Wisconsin not only destroyed 
innocent people but misled the nation. Yet the press was powerless 
to put these charges in perspective in its news columns. despite several 
years of front-page stories, the average citizen was unable to get 
a complete picture of McCarthy until he saw on the television screen 
what the reporters had been seeing all along but had no effective way 
of communicating. The Senator had boxed them in with their own restrictions.

It seems to me the time has come for the American 
press to start experimenting with ways of reporting the news that will 
do a better job of communicating and will be less subject to abuse by 
those who have learned how to manipulate the present stereotype to serve 
their own ends. The objective should be to provide a method of getting 
into print a higher percentage than is now possible of the relevant 
information in the possession of reporters and editors. @ 

#SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA BLACKOUT#

I WOULD LIKE to see you devote 
some space in an early issue to the news blackout concerning President 
Kennedy's activities, so far as Southern California is concerned. 
You have on more than one occasion praised the idea of a televised 
press conference and the chance it gives the people to form intelligent 
opinions.   To begin with, the all-powerful Los Angeles <Times> 
does not publish a transcript of these press conferences. I 
am sure that they did when Eisenhower was President.   Next, 
because of the time differential, the conferences come on the networks 
during the middle of the day. Up until now, the networks have grudgingly 
run half-hour tapes at 5 P&M& or sometimes 7 or 10:30 P&M&. 
Even then, a few of the "less interesting" questions are 
edited out and glibly summarized by a commentator. However, last night 
the tapes were not run at all during the evening hours and all we got 
on ~TV were a few snatches which Douglas Edwards and Huntley 
and Brinkley could squeeze into their programs. This is no criticism 
of them, as they obviously cannot get a half-hour program into a fifteen-minute 
news summary.   The radio stations did run "transcripts" 
(I thought) during the evening hours. However, by comparing 
the ~TV snatches, two different radio station re-runs, and the censored 
Los Angeles <Times> version, I found that the radio stations 
had edited out questions (~ABC removed the one regarding Laos) 
or even a paragraph out of the middle of the President's answer. 
I am interested to know he is getting mail from all over the country 
about the "abuse" he is being subjected to. We out here don't 
see enough of the conference to know he is being abused.   I don't 
know if this is the situation in other parts of the country; apparently 
it is not. It also happened with the Inauguration, which was 
not re-run at all during the evening hours, and I wrote to the ~TV 
editor of the <Times>. He did mention in his column the fact that 
he had received many letters about this and he himself did not understand 
the networks and the independent local stations' not doing this- 
but nothing happened.   Can you bring the networks' attention 
to this? @ 

#FOR A COLLEGE OF PROPAGANDA#

I WAS INTERESTED 
in James Webb Young's MADISON AVENUE column in which 
he raised the question "Do We Need a College of Propaganda"? 
[~SR, Feb& 11].   In my estimation, we definitely 
do; and the sad part of it is that we had one, which was rounding into 
excellent shape, and we let it disintegrate and die.   During 
the war, we set up schools for the teaching of psychological warfare, 
which included the teaching of propaganda, both black and white and the 
various shades of grey in between. We had a couple of schools in this 
country, the principal one being on the Marshall Field estate out 
in Lloyd's Neck. There were also a couple in Canada, and several 
in England. The English schools preceded ours, and by the time we 
got into it they had learned a lot about the techniques of propaganda 
and its teaching.   Four of us here in the United States attended, 
first as students, then as instructors, almost every one of these 
schools, in England, Canada, and the United States. We set up 
the Lloyd's Neck school, worked out its curriculum, and taught there. 
Toward the end of the war, we really felt that we had learned something 
about propaganda and how to teach it.   When the end did 
come, and the schools were disbanded and abandoned, we felt and hoped 
that the machinery of psychological warfare would not be allowed to rust. 
We hoped that its practitioners and teachers might be put on some 
sort of reserve list and called back for refresher courses each year 
or so. Alas, no such thing happened. There apparently is no school of 
propaganda or psychological warfare. A study at the Pentagon and at 
the service academies revealed that nothing was being done there. And 
not one of the four men who attended all the schools has ever been 
called on to apply any of his knowledge in any way. @   CONGRATULATIONS 
on the article "Do We Need a College of Propaganda"? 
This is one of the most constructive suggestions made in this 
critical field in years, and I certainly hope it sparks some action. 
@ 

#LET THE MEDIA CLEAN HOUSE, TOO#

MANY OF US in public 
relations were flattered that Richard L& Tobin chose to devote his 
editorial in the March 11 Communications Supplement to the merger 
of the Public Relations Society of America and the American Public 
Relations Association. 

#SNOW STORM#

I WAS SURPRISED and sorry to find in your issue 
of March 4 a long and detailed attack upon a book that had not yet 
been published.   Whether in his forthcoming book C& P& Snow 
commits the errors of judgment and of fact with which your heavily 
autobiographical critic charged him is important. One should be able 
to get hold of the book at once. But the attack was made from an advance 
copy. If this practice should take root and spread, the man who 
submits a manuscript to a publisher will find himself reviewed before 
he is accepted and publication will become a sort of post-mortem formality. 
@   EDITOR'S NOTE: <Sir Robert Watson-Watt 
wrote, on page 50 of> ~SR/ <Research for 4 March 1961: "I 
have read an advance copy of the Snow book which is to be titled, 'Science 
and Government'. Until the work actually appears I am 
not privileged to analyze it publicly in detail. But I have compared 
its text with already published commentaries on the 1960 series of Godkin 
lectures at Harvard, from which the book was derived, and I can 
with confidence challenge the gist of C& P& Snow's incautious 
tale".   Watson-Watt's remarks in> ~SR <did not then, 
constitute a review of the book but a rebuttal to the Godkin Lectures. 
Representatives of Harvard University Press, which is publishing 
the book this month of April, recognize and freely acknowledge 
that they invited such reaction by allowing> Life <magazine to print 
an excerpt from the book in advance of the book's publication date. 
The text of the book leaves a somewhat milder impression than the 
prepublication excerpt>. ##

SIR ROBERT WATSON-WATT'S "rebuttal" 
of Sir Charles Snow's Godkin Lectures is marred throughout 
by too forceful a desire to defend Lindemann and apparently himself 
from Sir Charles' supposed falsehoods while stating those "falsehoods" 
in an unclear incoherent argument.   The article 
presents the reader with an absurdity at its beginning. It calls the 
conclusion admitted valid by "historians and military strategists alike" 
a "perverted conclusion. **h nonsense".   It submits 
an enthusiastic, impressionistic conception of Lindemann contributing 
another aspect of the man, but on no more authoritative basis than Sir 
Charles' account. We are left to choose between the two Lindemanns.

The only fact that holds any weight in the article is the 
result of the tea party. But we are to believe that Lindemann actively 
supported radar outside the Tizard Committee, and dissembling, 
discounted it inside? If so, I would lean to Sir Charles' conception 
of the man.   I think it was a grave error to print the 
article at this time. To the unfortunate people unable to attend the 
Godkin lectures it casts an unjustifiable aura of falsehood over the 
book which may dissuade some people from reading it. @

IT IS NOT NEWS that Nathan Milstein is a wizard of the 
violin. Certainly not in Orchestra hall where he has played countless 
recitals, and where Thursday night he celebrated his 20th season with 
the Chicago Symphony orchestra, playing the Brahms Concerto with 
his own slashing, demon-ridden cadenza melting into the high, pale, 
pure and lovely song with which a violinist unlocks the heart of the music, 
or forever finds it closed.   There was about that song something 
incandescent, for this Brahms was Milstein at white heat. Not 
the noblest performance we have heard him play, or the most spacious, 
or even the most eloquent. Those would be reserved for the orchestra's 
great nights when the soloist can surpass himself. This time the 
orchestra gave him some superb support fired by response to his own 
high mood. But he had in Walter Hendl a willing conductor able only 
up to a point.   That is, when Mr& Milstein thrust straight 
to the core of the music, sparks flying, bow shredding, violin singing, 
glittering and sometimes spitting, Mr& Hendl could go along. But 
Mr& Hendl does not go straight to any point. He flounders and 
lets music sprawl. There was in the Brahms none of the mysterious and 
marvelous alchemy by which a great conductor can bring soloist, orchestra 
and music to ultimate fusion. So we had some dazzling and memorable 
Milstein, but not great Brahms.   The concert opened with 
another big romantic score, Schumann's Overture to "Manfred", 
which suffered fate, this time with orchestral thrusts to the Byronic 
point to keep it afloat. Hindemith's joust with Weber tunes was 
a considerably more serious misfortune, for it demands transluscent 
textures, buoyant rhythms, and astringent wit. It got the kind of scrambled, 
coarsened performance that can happen to best of orchestras when 
the man with the baton lacks technique and style. 

#BAYREUTH NEXT 
SUMMER#

The Bayreuth Festival opens July 23 with a new production 
of "Tannhaeuser" staged by Wieland Wagner, who is doing all the 
operas this time, and conducted by Wolfgang Sawallisch. Sawalisch 
also conducts "The Flying Dutch", opening July 24. "Parsifal" 
follows July 25, with Hans Knappertsbusch conducting, and he 
also conducts "Die Meistersinger", to be presented Aug& 8 and 
12. The "Ring" cycles are July 26, 27, 28 and 30, and Aug& 
21, 22, 23 and 25. Rudolf Kempe conducts. No casts are listed, but 
Lotte Lehmann sent word that the Negro soprano, Grace Bumbry, will 
sing Venus in "Tannhaeuser".

REMEMBER HOW BY a series of booking absurdities Chicago 
missed seeing the Bolshoi Ballet? Remember how by lack of two big 
theaters Chicago missed the first visit of the Royal Danish Ballet? 
Well, now we have two big theaters. But barring a miracle, and 
don't hold your breath for it, Chicago will not see the Leningrad-Kirov 
Ballet, which stems from the ballet cradle of the Maryinsky and 
is one of the great companies of the world.   Before you let 
loose a howl saying we announced its coming, not once but several times, 
indeed we did. The engagement was supposed to be all set for the big 
theater in McCormick Place, which Sol Hurok, ballet booker extraordinary, 
considers the finest house of its kind in the country- and 
of course he doesn't weep at the capacity, either. #@#

It 
was all set. Allied Arts corporation first listed the Chicago dates 
as Dec& 4 thru 10. Later the Hurok office made it Dec& 8 thru 
17, a nice, long booking for the full repertory. But if you keep a calendar 
of events, as we do, you noticed a conflict. Allied Arts had 
booked Marlene Dietrich into McCormick Place Dec& 8 and 9. Something 
had to give. Not La Dietrich. Allied Arts then notified 
us that the Kirov would cut short its Los Angeles booking, fly here 
to open Nov& 28, and close Dec& 2. Shorter booking, but still 
a booking. We printed it.   A couple of days later a balletomane 
told me he had telephoned Allied Arts for ticket information and was 
told "the newspapers had made a mistake". So I started making 
some calls of my own. These are the results. #@#

The Kirov Ballet 
is firmly booked into the Shrine Auditorium, Los Angeles, Nov& 
21 thru Dec& 4. Not a chance of opening here Nov& 28- 
barring that miracle. Then why not the juicy booking Hurok had held 
for us? Well, Dietrich won't budge from McCormick Place. Then 
how about the Civic Opera house? Well, Allied Arts has booked 
Lena Horne there for a week starting Dec& 4.   Queried about 
the impasse, Allied Arts said: "Better cancel the Kirov for 
the time being. It's all up in the air again".   So the Kirov 
will fly back to Russia, minus a Chicago engagement, a serious 
loss for dance fans- and for the frustrated bookers, cancellation of 
one of the richest bookings in the country.   Will somebody please 
reopen the Auditorium?

Paintings and drawings by Marie Moore of St& Thomas, Virgin 
Islands, are shown thru Nov& 5 at the Meadows gallery, 3211 
Ellis av&, week days, 3 p& m& to 8 p& m&, Sundays 3 p& m& 
to 6 p& m&, closed Mondays. @ #@#

An exhibition of 
Evelyn Cibula's paintings will open with a reception Nov& 5 at 
the Evanston Community center, 828 Davis st&. It will continue all 
month. #@#

Abstractions and semi-abstractions by Everett McNear 
are being exhibited by the University gallery of Notre Dame 
until Nov& 5.

In the line of operatic trades to cushion the budget, the Dallas 
Civic Opera will use San Francisco's new Leni Bauer-Ecsy 
production of "Lucia di Lammermoor" this season, returning the favor 
next season when San Francisco uses the Dallas "Don Giovanni", 
designed by Franco Zeffirelli.

H E& BATES has scribbled a farce called "Hark, Hark, 
the Lark"! It is one of the most entertaining and irresponsible 
novels of the season.   If there is a moral lurking among the 
shenanigans, it is hard to find. Perhaps the lesson we should take from 
these pages is that the welfare state in England still allows wild 
scope for all kinds of rugged eccentrics.   Anyway, a number of 
them meet here in devastating collisions. One is an imperial London 
stockbroker called Jerebohm. Another is a wily countryman called Larkin, 
whose blandly boisterous progress has been chronicled, I believe, 
in earlier volumes of Mr& Bates' comedie humaine.   What's 
up now? Well, Jerebohm and his wife Pinkie have reached the 
stage of affluence that stirs a longing for the more atrociously expensive 
rustic simplicities.   They want to own a junior-grade castle, 
or a manor house, or some modest little place where Shakespeare might 
once have staged a pageant for Great Elizabeth and all her bearded 
courtiers.   They are willing to settle, however, in anything 
that offers pheasants to shoot at and peasants to work at. And of course 
Larkin has just the thing they want. 

#SPLENDOR BY SORCERY# 

It's a horror. The name of it is Gore Court, and it is surrounded 
by a wasteland that would impress T& S& Eliot. That's not 
precisely the way Larkin urges them to look at it, though. He conjures 
herds 
of deer, and wild birds crowding the air.   He suggests 
that Gore Court embodies all the glories of Tudor splendor. The stained-glass 
windows may have developed unpremeditated patinas, the paneling 
may be no more durable than the planks in a political platform. 
The vast, dungeon kitchens may seem hardly worth using except on occasions 
when one is faced with a thousand unexpected guests for lunch.

Larkin has an answer to all that. The spaciousness of the Tudor 
cooking areas, for example, will provide needed space for the extra 
television sets required by modern butlers, cooks and maids. Also, perhaps, 
table-tennis and other indoor sports to keep them fit and contented.

It's a wonder, really, to how much mendacious trouble 
Larkin puts himself to sell the Jerebohms that preposterous manse. 
He doesn't really need the immense sum of money (probably converted 
from American gold on the London Exchange) he makes them pay.

For Larkin is already wonderfully contented with his lot. He has 
a glorious wife and many children. When he needs money to buy something 
like, say, the Rolls-Royce he keeps near his vegetable patch, he 
takes a flyer in the sale of surplus army supplies. One of those capital-gains 
ventures, in fact, has saddled him with Gore Court. He is 
willing to sell it just to get it off his hands.   And the Jerebohms 
are more than willing to buy it. They plan to become county people 
who know the proper way to terminate a fox's life on earth. 

#FIRST 
ONE, THEN THE OTHER#

If, in Larkin's eyes, they are nothing 
but Piccadilly farmers, he has as much to learn about them as they 
have to learn about the ways of truly rural living.   Mr& Bates 
shows us how this mutual education spreads its inevitable havoc. Oneupmanship 
is practiced by both sides in a total war.   First 
the Larkins are ahead, then the Jerebohms. After Larkin has been persuaded 
to restock his tangled acres with pheasants, he poaches only what 
he needs for the nourishment of his family and local callers. One 
of the local callers, a retired brigadier apparently left over from Kipling's 
tales of India, does not approve of the way Larkin gets 
his birds.   He doesn't think that potting them from a deck chair 
on the south side of the house with a quart glass of beer for sustenance 
is entirely sporting. But the brigadier dines on the birds with 
relish.

IT is truly odd and ironic that the most handsome and impressive 
film yet made from Miguel de Cervantes' "Don Quixote" 
is the brilliant Russian spectacle, done in wide screen and color, 
which opened yesterday at the Fifty-fifth Street and Sixty-eighth Street 
Playhouses.   More than a beautiful visualization of the 
illustrious adventures and escapades of the tragi-comic knight-errant 
and his squire, Sancho Panza, in seventeenth-century Spain, this inevitably 
abbreviated rendering of the classic satire on chivalry is an 
affectingly warm and human exposition of character. #@#

Nikolai 
Cherkasov, the Russian actor who has played such heroic roles as Alexander 
Nevsky and Ivan the Terrible, performs the lanky Don Quixote, 
and does so with a simple dignity that bridges the inner nobility 
and the surface absurdity of this poignant man.   His addle-brained 
knight-errant, self-appointed to the ridiculous position in an 
age when armor had already been relegated to museums and the chivalrous 
code of knight-errantry had become a joke, is, as Cervantes no doubt 
intended, a gaunt but gracious symbol of good, moving soberly and sincerely 
in a world of cynics, hypocrites and rogues.   Cherkasov 
does not caricature him, as some actors have been inclined to do. He 
treats this deep-eyed, bearded, bony crackpot with tangible affection 
and respect. Directed by Grigory Kozintsev in a tempo that is 
studiously 
slow, he develops a sense of a high tradition shining brightly and 
passing gravely through an impious world.   The complexities 
of communication have been considerably abetted in this case by appropriately 
stilted English language that has been excellently dubbed in 
place of the Russian dialogue. The voices of all the characters, including 
that of Cherkasov, have richness, roughness or color to conform 
with the personalities. And the subtleties of the dialogue are most 
helpfully conveyed. Since Russian was being spoken instead of Spanish, 
there is no violation of artistry or logic here.   Splendid, 
too, is the performance of Yuri Tolubeyev, one of Russia's leading 
comedians, as Sancho Panza, the fat, grotesque "squire". Though 
his character is broader and more comically rounded than the don, 
he gives it a firmness and toughness- a sort of peasant dignity- 
too. It is really as though the Russians have seen in this character 
the 
oftentimes underlying vitality and courage of supposed buffoons.

The episode in which Sancho Panza concludes the joke that is played 
on him when he is facetiously put in command of an "island" is 
one of the best in the film. #@#

True, the pattern and flow of 
the drama have strong literary qualities that are a bit wearisome in 
the first half, before Don Quixote goes to the duke's court. But 
strength and poignancy develop thenceforth, and the windmill and deathbed 
episodes gather the threads of realization of the wonderfulness of 
the old boy.   There are other good representations of peasants 
and people of the court by actors who are finely costumed and magnificently 
photographed in this last of the Russian films to reach this 
country in the program of joint cultural exchange.   Also on the 
bill at the Fifty-fifth Street is a nice ten-minute color film called 
"Sunday in Greenwich Village", a tour of the haunts and joints.

Television has yet to work out a living arrangement with jazz, 
which comes to the medium more as an uneasy guest than as a relaxed member 
of the family.   There seems to be an unfortunate assumption 
that an hour of Chicago-style jazz in prime evening time, for example, 
could not be justified without the trimmings of a portentous documentary. 
At least this seemed to be the working hypothesis for "Chicago 
and All That Jazz", presented on ~NBC-~TV Nov& 
26.   The program came out of the ~NBC Special Projects department, 
and was slotted in the Du Pont Show of the Week series. 
Perhaps Special Projects necessarily thinks along documentary lines. 
If so, it might be worth while to assign a future jazz show to a different 
department- one with enough confidence in the musical material 
to cut down on the number of performers and give them a little room 
to display their talents.   As a matter of fact, this latter approach 
has already been tried, and with pleasing results. A few years 
ago a 
"Timex All-Star Jazz Show" offered a broad range of styles, 
ranging from Lionel Hampton's big band to the free-wheeling 
Dukes of Dixieland. An enthusiastic audience confirmed the "live" 
character of the hour, and provided the interaction between musician 
and hearer which almost always seems to improve the quality of performance.

About that same time John Crosby's ~TV series 
on the popular arts proved again that giving jazz ample breathing space 
is one of the most sensible things a producer can do. In an hour remembered 
for its almost rudderless movement, a score of jazz luminaries 
went before the cameras for lengthy periods. The program had been arranged 
to permit the establishment of a mood of intense concentration 
on the music. Cameras stared at soloists' faces in extreme closeups, 
then considerately pulled back for full views of ensemble work.

"Chicago and All That Jazz" could not be faulted on the choice 
of artists. Some of the in-person performers were Jack Teagarden, 
Gene Krupa, Bud Freeman, Pee Wee Russell, Johnny St& Cyr, 
Joe Sullivan, Red Allen, Lil Armstrong, Blossom Seeley. The 
jazz buff could hardly ask for more.   Furthermore, Garry Moore 
makes an ideal master of ceremonies. (He played host at the Timex 
show already mentioned.)   One of the script's big problems 
was how to blend pictures and music of the past with live performances 
by musicians of today. ~NBC had gathered a lot of historical material 
which it was eager to share. For example, there was sheet music 
with the word "jazz" in the title, 
to illustrate how a word of uncertain origin took hold. Samples 
soomed into closeup range in regular succession, like telephone poles 
passing on the highway, while representative music reinforced the mood 
of the late teens and 1920's.   However well chosen and cleverly 
arranged, such memorabilia unfortunately amounted to more of an 
interruption than an auxiliary to the evening's main business, which 
(considering the talent at hand) should probably have been the gathering 
of fresh samples of the Chicago style.   Another source of 
~NBC pride was its rare film clip of Bix Beiderbecke, but this 
view of the great trumpeter flew by so fast that a prolonged wink would 
have blotted out the entire glimpse. Similarly, in presenting still 
photographs of early jazz groups, the program allowed no time for a 
close perusal.   "Chicago and All That Jazz" may have wound 
up satisfying neither the confirmed fan nor the inquisitive newcomer. 
By trying to be both a serious survey of a bygone era and a showcase 
for today's artists, the program turned out to be a not-quite-perfect 
example of either. Still, the network's willingness to experiment 
in this musical field is to be commended, and future essays happily 
anticipated.

Even Joan Sutherland may not have anticipated the tremendous 
reception she received from the Metropolitan Opera audience attending 
her debut as Lucia in Donizetti's "Lucia di Lammermoor" Sunday 
night.   The crowd staged its own mad scene in salvos of 
cheers and applause and finally a standing ovation as Miss Sutherland 
took curtain call after curtain call following a fantastic "Mad 
Scene" created on her own and with the help of the composer and the 
other performers.   Her entrance in Scene 2, Act 1, brought some 
disconcerting applause even before she had sung a note. Thereafter 
the audience waxed applause-happy, but discriminating operagoers reserved 
judgment as her singing showed signs of strain, her musicianship 
some questionable procedure and her acting uncomfortable stylization. 
As she gained composure during the second act, her technical resourcefulness 
emerged stronger, though she had already revealed a trill almost 
unprecedented in years of performances of "Lucia". She topped 
the sextet brilliantly.   Each high note had the crowd in ecstasy 
so that it stopped the show midway in the "Mad Scene", but the 
real reason was a realization of the extraordinary performance unfolding 
at the moment. Miss Sutherland appeared almost as another person 
in this scene: A much more girlish Lucia, a sensational coloratura 
who ran across stage while singing, and an actress immersed in her 
role. What followed the outburst brought almost breathless silence as 
Miss Sutherland revealed her mastery of a voice probably unique among 
sopranos today.   This big, flexible voice with uncommon range 
has been superbly disciplined. Nervousness at the start must have caused 
the blemishes of her first scene, or she may warm up slowly. In 
the fullness of her vocal splendor, however, she could sing the famous 
scene magnificently.   Technically it was fascinating, aurally 
spell-binding, and dramatically quite realistic. Many years have passed 
since a Metropolitan audience heard anything comparable. Her debut 
over, perhaps the earlier scenes will emerge equally fine.   The 
performance also marked the debut of a most promising young conductor, 
Silvio Varviso. He injected more vitality into the score than 
it has revealed in many years. He may respect too much the Italian tradition 
of letting singers hold on to their notes, but to restrain them 
in a singers' opera may be quite difficult.   Richard Tucker 
sang Edgardo in glorious voice. His bel canto style gave the performance 
a special distinction. The remainder of the cast fulfilled its 
assignments no more than satisfactorily just as the old production and 
limited stage direction proved only serviceable.   Miss Sutherland 
first sang Lucia at Covent Garden in 1959. (The first Metropolitan 
Opera broadcast on Dec& 9 will introduce her as Lucia.) 
She 
has since turned to Bellini, whose opera "Beatrice di Tenda" 
in a concert version with the American Opera Society introduced her 
to New York last season. She will sing "La Sonambula" with 
it here next week.

Anyone for musical Ping-pong?   It's really quite fun- 
as long as you like games. You will need a stereo music system, 
with speakers preferably placed at least seven or eight feet apart, and 
one or more of the new London "Phase 4" records. There are 12 
of these to choose from, all of them of popular music except for the 
star release, {Pass in Review} (~SP-44001). This features 
the marching songs of several nations, recorded as though the various 
national bands were marching by your reviewing stand. Complete with 
crowd effects, interruptions by jet planes, and sundry other touches of 
realism, this disc displays London's new technique to the best effect.

All of the jackets carry a fairly technical and detailed 
explanation of this new recording program. No reference is made to the 
possibility of recording other than popular music in this manner, and 
it would not seem to lend itself well to serious music. Directionality 
is greatly exaggerated most of the time; but when the sounds of 
the two speakers are allowed to mix, there is excellent depth and dimension 
to the music. You definitely hear some of the instruments close 
up and others farther back, with the difference in placement apparently 
more distinct than would result from the nearer instruments merely 
being louder than the ones farther back. This is a characteristic of 
good stereo recording and one of its tremendous advantages over monaural 
sound.   London explains that the very distinct directional 
effect in the Phase 4 series is due in large part to their novel methods 
of microphoning and recording the music on a number of separate tape 
channels. These are then mixed by their sound engineers with the active 
co-operation of the musical staff and combined into the final two 
channels which are impressed on the record. In some of the numbers 
the instrumental parts have even been recorded at different times and 
then later combined on the master tape to produce special effects.

Some clue to the character of London's approach in these discs 
may be gained immediately from the fact that ten of the 12 titles include 
the word "percussion" or "percussive". Drums, xylophones, 
castanets, and other percussive instruments are reproduced remarkably 
well. Only too often, however, you have the feeling that you are sitting 
in a room with some of the instruments lined up on one wall to your 
left and others facing them on the wall to your right. They are definitely 
in the same room with you, but your head starts to swing as 
though you were sitting on the very edge of a tennis court watching a 
spirited volley.   {The Percussive Twenties} (~SP-44006) 
stirs pleasant memories with well-known songs of that day, and Johnny 
Keating's Kombo gives forth with tingling jazz in {Percussive 
Moods} (~SP-44005). {Big Band Percussion} (~SP-44002) 
seemed one of the least attractive discs- the arrangements just 
didn't have so much character as the others.   There is an extraordinary 
sense of presence in all of these recordings, apparently obtained 
at least in part by emphasizing the middle and high frequencies. 
The penalty for this is noticeable in the big, bold, brilliant, 
but brassy piano sounds in {Melody and Percussion for Two Pianos} 
(~SP-44007). All of the releases, however, are recorded at a 
gratifyingly high level, with resultant masking of any surface noise. 
{Pass in Review} practically guarantees enjoyment, and is a dramatic 
demonstration of the potentialities of any stereo music system.

Many Hollywood films manage somehow to be authentic, but not 
realistic.   Strange, but true- authenticity and realism often 
aren't related at all.   Almost every film bearing the imprimatur 
of Hollywood is physically authentic- in fact, impeccably so. In 
any given period piece the costumes, bric-a-brac, vehicles, and decor, 
bear the stamp of unimpeachable authenticity.   The major studios 
maintain a cadre of film librarians and research specialists who 
look to this matter. During the making recently of an important Biblical 
film, some 40 volumes of research material and sketches not only 
of costumes and interiors, but of architectural developments, sports 
arenas, vehicles, and other paraphernalia were compiled, consulted, and 
complied with.   But, alas, the authenticity seems to stop at 
the set's edge. The drama itself- and this seems to be lavishly true 
of Biblical drama- often has hardly any relationship with authenticity 
at all. The storyline, in sort, is wildly unrealistic. 
Thus, in "The Story of Ruth" we have Ruth, Naomi, and Boaz 
and sets that are meticulously authentic. But except for a vague adherence 
to the basic storyline- i&e&, that Ruth remained with Naomi 
and finally wound up with Boaz- the film version has little to 
do with the Bible.   And in the new "King of Kings" the 
plot involves intrigues and twists and turns that cannot be traced to 
the Gospels.   Earlier this month Edward R& Murrow, director 
of the United States Information Agency, came to Hollywood and 
had dinner with more than 100 leaders of the motion picture industry.

He talked about unauthentic storylines too. He intimated that 
they weren't doing the country much good in the Cold War. And 
to an industry that prides itself on authenticity, he urged greater realism.

"in many corners of the globe", he said, "the major 
source of impressions about this country are in the movies they meet. 
Would we want a future-day Gibbon or Macaulay recounting the saga 
of America with movies as his prime source of knowledge? Yet for 
much of the globe, Hollywood is just that- prime, if not sole, source 
of knowledge. If a man totally ignorant of America were to judge 
our land and its civilization based on Hollywood alone, what conclusions 
do you think he might come to?

Francois D'Albert, Hungarian-born violinist who made his 
New York debut three years ago, played a return engagement last night 
in Judson Hall. He is now president of the Chicago Conservatory 
College. His pianist was Donald Jenni, a faculty member at DePaul 
University.   The acoustics of the small hall had been misgauged 
by the artists, so that for the first half of the program, when 
the 
piano was partially open, Mr& Jenni's playing was too loud. In 
vying with him, Mr& D'Albert also seemed to be overdriving his 
tone.   This was not an overriding drawback to enjoyment of the 
performances, however, except in the case of the opening work, Mozart's 
Sonata in ~A (K& 526), which clattered along noisily in 
an unrelieved fashion.   Brahm's Sonata in ~A, although also 
vigorous, stood up well under the two artists' strong, large-scale 
treatment. Mr& D'Albert has a firm, attractive tone, which eschews 
an overly sweet vibrato. He made the most of the long Brahmsian 
phrases, and by the directness and drive of his playing gave the work 
a handsome performance.   A Sonata for Violin and Piano, called 
"Bella Bella", by Robert Fleming, was given its first United 
States performance. The title refers to the nickname given his 
wife by the composer, who is also a member of the National Film Board 
of Canada. The work's two movements, one melodically sentimental, 
the other brightly capricious, are clever enough in a Ravel-like 
style, but they rehash a wornout idiom. They might well indicate conjugal 
felicity, but in musical terms that smack of Hollywood.   Works 
by Dohnanyi, Hubay, Mr& D'Albert himself and Paganini, 
indicated that the violinist had some virtuoso fireworks up his sleeve 
as well as a reserved attitude toward a lyric phrase. Standard items 
by Sarasate and Saint-Saens completed the program. @

IN recent years Anna Xydis has played with the New York 
Philharmonic and at Lewisohn Stadium, but her program last night 
at Town Hall was the Greek-born pianist's first New York recital 
since 1948.   Miss Xydis has a natural affinity for the keyboard, 
and in the twenty years since her debut here she has gained the 
authority and inner assurance that lead to audience control. And the 
tone she commands is always beautiful in sound.   Since she also 
has considerable technical virtuosity and a feeling for music in the 
romantic tradition, Miss Xydis gave her listeners a good deal of pleasure. 
She played with style and a touch of the grand manner, and every 
piece she performed was especially effective in its closing measures.

The second half of her program was devoted to Russian composers 
of this century. It was in them that Miss Xydis was at her best. 
The Rachmaninoff Prelude No& 12, Op& 32, for instance, gave 
her an opportunity to exploit one of her special facilities- the 
ability to produce fine deep-sounding bass tones while contrasting them 
simultaneously with fine silver filagree in the treble.   The 
four Kabalevsky Preludes were also assured, rich in color and songful. 
And the Prokofieff Seventh Sonata had the combination of romanticism 
and modern bravura that Prokofieff needs.   Miss 
Xydis' 
earlier selections were Mendelssohn's Variations Serieuses, in which 
each variation was nicely set off from the others; Haydn's Sonata 
in ~E minor, which was unfailingly pleasant in sound, and Chopin's 
Sonata in ~B flat minor. A memory lapse in the last somewhat 
marred the pianist's performance. So what was the deepest music 
on her program had the poorest showing. Miss Xydis was best when 
she did not need to be too probing.

ALL the generals who held important commands in World War 
/2, did not write books. It only seems as if they did. And the 
best books by generals were not necessarily the first ones written. One 
of the very best is only now published in this country, five years 
after its first publication in England. It is "Defeat Into Victory", 
by Field Marshal Viscount Slim.   A long book heavily 
weighted with military technicalities, in this edition it is neither 
so long nor so technical as it was originally. Field Marshal Slim 
has abridged it for the benefit of "those who, finding not so great 
an attraction in accounts of military moves and counter-moves, are more 
interested in men and their reactions to stress, hardship and danger". 
The man whose reactions and conclusions get the most space is, of 
course, the Field Marshal himself.   William Joseph Slim, 
First Viscount Slim, former Governor General of Australia, was the 
principal British commander in the field during the Burma War. He 
had been a corps commander during the disastrous defeat and retreat 
of 1942 when the ill-prepared, ill-equipped British forces "were outmaneuvered, 
outfought and outgeneraled". He returned in command of 
an international army of Gurkhas, Indians, Africans, Chinese and 
British. And in a series of bitterly fought battles in the jungles 
and hills and along the great rivers of Burma he waged one of the most 
brilliant campaigns of the war. "The Forgotten War" his soldiers 
called the Burma fighting because the war in Africa and Europe 
enjoyed priorities in equipment and in headlines.   Parts of "Defeat 
Into Victory" are a tangle of Burmese place names and military 
units, but a little application makes everything clear enough. On 
the whole this is an interesting and exceptionally well-written book. 
Field Marshal Slim is striking in description, amusing in many anecdotes. 
He has a pleasant sense of humor and is modest enough to admit 
mistakes and even "a cardinal error". He praises many individuals 
generously. He himself seems to be tough, tireless, able and intelligent, 
more intellectual and self-critical than most soldiers. 

#REMAKING 
AN ARMY TO WIN#

"Defeat Into Victory" is a dramatic 
and lively military narrative. But it is most interesting in its account 
of the unending problems of high command, of decisions and their 
reasons, of the myriad matters that demand attention in addition to battle 
action.   Before he could return to Burma, Field Marshal 
Slim had to rally the defeated remnants of a discouraged army and unite 
them with fresh recruits. His remarks about training, discipline, 
morale, leadership and command are enlightening. He believed in making 
inspiring speeches and he made a great many. He believed in being 
seen near the front lines and he was there. For general morale reasons 
and to encourage the efforts of his supply officers, when food was 
short for combat troops he cut the rations of his headquarters staff accordingly.

Other crucial matters required constant supervision: 
labor and all noncombatant troops, whose morale was vital, too; 
administrative organization and delicate diplomatic relations with 
Top Brass- British, American and Chinese; health, hygiene, medical 
aid and preventive medicine; hospitals (inadequate) and nurses 
(scanty); food and military supplies; logistics and transport; 
airdrops and airstrips; roads and river barges to be built. 

#EXPECTED 
OF A COMMANDER#

Commenting on these and other matters, Field 
Marshal Slim makes many frank and provocative remarks:   "When 
in doubt as to two courses of action, a general should choose the 
bolder".   "The commander has failed in <his> duty if he 
has not won victory- for that <is> his duty".   "It only 
does harm to talk to troops about new and desirable equipment which 
others may have but which you cannot give them. It depresses them. So 
I made no mention of air transport until we could get at least some 
of it".   Field Marshal Slim is more impressed by the courage 
of Japanese soldiers than he is by the ability of their commanders. 
Of the Japanese private he says: "He fought and marched till 
he died. If 500 Japanese were ordered to hold a position, we had to 
kill 495 before it was ours- and then the last five killed themselves".

Brooding about future wars, the Field Marshal has this 
to say: "The Asian fighting man is at least equally brave [as 
the white], usually more careless of death, less encumbered by mental 
doubts, less troubled by humanitarian sentiment, and not so moved by 
slaughter and mutilation around him. He is, by background and living 
standards, better fitted to endure hardship uncomplainingly, to demand 
less in the way of subsistence or comfort, and to look after himself 
when thrown on his own resources".

A bunch of young buckaroos from out West, who go by the name 
of Texas Boys Choir, loped into Town Hall last night and succeeded 
in corralling the hearts of a sizable audience.   Actually, the 
program they sang was at least two-thirds serious and high-minded, 
and they sang it beautifully. Under the capable direction of the choir's 
founder, Geroge Bragg, the twenty-six boys made some lovely sounds 
in an opening group of Renaissance and baroque madrigals and motets, 
excerpts from Pergolesi's "Stabat Mater" and all of the 
Britten "Ceremonial of Carols".   Their singing was well-balanced, 
clear and, within obvious limitations, extremely pleasing. The 
limitations are those one expects from untrained and unsettled voices- 
an occasional shrillness of almost earsplitting intensity, an occasional 
waver and now and then a bleat.   But Mr& Bragg is 
a remarkably gifted conductor, and the results he has produced with 
his boys are generally superior. Most surprising of all, he has accomplished 
some prodigies in training for the production of words. The Latin, 
for example, was not only clear; it was even beautiful.

Furthermore, there were solid musical virtues in the interpretation 
of the music. Lines came out neatly and in good balance. Tempos were 
lively. The piano accompaniments by Istvan Szelenyi were stylish.

A boy soprano named Dixon Boyd sang a Durante solo motet and 
a few other passages enchantingly. Other capable soloists included 
David Clifton, Joseph Schockler and Pat Thompson.   The final 
group included folk songs from back home, stomped out, shouted and 
chanted with irresistible spirit and in cowboy costume. Boys will be 
boys, and Texans will be Texans. The combination proved quite irresistible 
last night. @

THE Polish song and dance company called Mazowsze, after 
the region of Poland, where it has its headquarters, opened a three-week 
engagement at the City Center last night. A thoroughly ingratiating 
company it is, and when the final curtain falls you may suddenly 
realize that you have been sitting with a broad grin on your face all 
evening.   Not that it is all funny, by any means, though some 
of it is definitely so, but simply that the dancers are young and handsome, 
high-spirited and communicative, and the program itself is as vivacious 
as it is varied. There is no use at all in trying to follow 
it dance by dance and title by title, for it has a kind of nonstop format, 
and moves along in an admirable continuity that demands no pauses 
for identification.   The material is all basically of folk origin, 
gleaned from every section of Poland. But under the direction of 
Mira Ziminska-Sygietynska, who with her late husband founded the 
organization in 1948, it has all been put into theatrical form, treated 
selectively, choreographed specifically for presentation to spectators, 
and performed altogether professionally. Under the surface of the 
wide range of folk movements is apparent a sound technical ballet training, 
and an equally professional sense of performing. #@#

Since 
the organization was created thirteen years ago, it is obvious that 
this is not the original company; it is more likely the sons and daughters 
of that company. The girls are charming children and the men 
are wonderfully vital and engaging youngsters. The stage is constantly 
full of them; indeed, there are never fewer than eight of them on 
stage, and that is only for the more intimate numbers. They can be exuberant 
or sentimental, flirtatious or funny, but the only thing they 
seem unable to be is dull.   To pick out particular numbers is 
something of a problem, but one or two identifiable items are too conspicuously 
excellent to be missed. There is for example, a stunning Krakowiak 
that closes the first act; the mazurka choreographed by Witold 
Zapala to music from Moniuszko's opera, "Strasny Dwor', 
may be the most beautiful mazurka you are likely ever to see; there 
is an enchanting polonaise; and the dances and songs from the Tatras 
contain a magnificent dance for the men.   Everywhere there are 
little touches of humor, and the leader of the on-stage band of musicians 
is an ebullient comedian who plays all sorts of odd instruments 
with winning warmth.

The {THEATRE-BY-THE-SEA}, Matunuck, presents "King 
of 
Hearts" by Jean Kerr and Eleanor Brooke. Directed by Michael 
Murray; settings by William David Roberts. The cast: @

Producer John Holmes has chosen a delightful comedy for his season's 
opener at Matunuck in Jean Kerr's "King of Hearts".

The dialogue is sharp, witty and candid- typical "don't eat 
the daisies" material- which has stamped the author throughout her 
books and plays, and it was obvious that the Theatre-by-the-Sea audience 
liked it.   The story is of a famous strip cartoonist, an 
arty individual, whose specialty is the American boy and who adopts 
a 10-year-old to provide him with fresh idea material.   This is 
when his troubles begin, not to mention a fiedgling artist who he hires, 
and who turns out to have ideas of his own, with particular respect 
to the hero's sweetheart-secretary.   John Heffernan, playing 
Larry Larkin, the cartoonist, carries the show in marvelous fashion. 
His portrayal of an edgy head-in-the-clouds artist is virtually flawless.

This may be unfortunate, perhaps, from the standpoint 
of David Hedison, Providence's contribution to Hollywood, who is 
appearing by special arrangement with 20th Century-Fox. Not that 
Mr& Hedison does not make the most of his role. He does, and more. 
But the book is written around a somewhat dizzy cartoonist, and it 
has to be that way.   A word should be said for Gary Morgan, a 
Broadway youngsters who, as the adopted son, makes life miserable for 
nearly everybody and Larkin in particular. And for his playmate, Francis 
Coletta of West Warwick, who has a bit part, Billy. 
On the whole, audiences will like this performance. It is a tremendous 
book, lively, constantly moving, and the Matunuck cast does well 
by it.

The {NEWPORT PLAYHOUSE} presents {"EPITAPH FOR 
GEORGE DILLON"} 
by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton, directed by Wallace 
Gray.   The cast: @   The angriest young man in 
Newport last night was at the Playhouse, where "Epitaph for George 
Dillon" opened as the jazz festival closed.   For the hero 
of this work by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton is a chap embittered 
by more than the lack of beer during a jam session. He's mad 
at a world he did not make.   Furthermore, he's something of 
a scoundrel, an artist whose mind and feelings are all finger-tips. 
This is in contrast to the family with whom he boards. They not only 
think and feel cliches but live cliches as well.   It is into this 
household, one eroded by irritations that have tortured the souls 
out of its people, that George Dillon enters at the beginning of the 
play.   An unsuccessful playwright and actor, he has faith only 
in himself and in a talent he is not sure exists. By the end of the 
third act, the artist is dead but the body lingers on, a shell among other 
shells.   Not altogether a successful play, "Epitaph for 
George Dillon" overcomes through sheer vitality and power what in 
a lesser work might be crippling. It is awfully talky, for instance, 
and not all of the talk is terribly impressive. But it strikes sparks 
on occasion and their light causes all else to be forgotten. 
There is a fine second act, as an example, one in which Samuel Groom, 
as Dillon, has an opportunity to blaze away in one impassioned passage 
after another. This is an exciting young actor to watch. 
Just as exciting but in a more technically proficient way is Laura Stuart, 
whose complete control of her every movement is lovely to watch. 
Miss Stuart is as intensely vibrant as one could wish, almost an 
icy shriek threatening to explode at any moment.   Also fine are 
Sue Lawless, as a mother more protective and belligerent than a female 
spider and just as destructive, Harold Cherry, as her scratchy 
spouse, and Hildy Weissman, as a vegetable in human form.   Wallace 
Gray has directed a difficult play here, usually well, but with 
just a bit too much physical movement in the first act for my taste. 
Still, his finale is put together with taste and a most sensitive projection 
of that pale sustenance, despair.

The {WARWICK MUSICAL THEATER} presents {"Where's 
Charley?"} with music and lyrics by Frank Loesser, directed 
by Christopher Hewett, choreography by Peter Conlow, musical direction 
by Samuel Matlowsky. The cast: @   Everybody fell 
in love with Amy again last night at the Warwick Musical Theater, 
and Shelley Berman was to blame.   One of the finest soft shoe 
tunes ever invented, "Once in Love with Amy" is also, of course, 
one of the most tantalizingly persistent of light love lyrics to come 
out of American musical comedy in our era. So the audience last 
night was all ears and eyes just after Act /2, got a rousing opening 
chorus, "Where's Charley?", and Berman sifted out all alone 
on the stage with the ambling chords and beat of the song just whispering 
into being.   It is greatly to Berman's credit that he 
made no attempt to outdo Ray Bolger. He dropped his earlier and delightful 
hamming, which is about the only way to handle the old war horse 
called "Charley's Aunt", and let himself go with as an appealing 
an "Amy" as anybody could ask.   In brief, Berman played 
himself and not Bolger. The big audience started applauding even 
before he had finished.   The whole production this week is fresh 
and lively. The costumes are stunning evocations of the voluminous 
gowns and picture hats of the Gibson Girl days. The ballet work 
is on the nose, especially in the opening number by "The New Ashmolean 
Marching Society and Students' Conservatory Band", along 
with a fiery and sultry Brazilian fantasia later.   Berman, whose 
fame has rested in recent years on his skills as a night club monologist, 
proved himself very much at home in musical comedy.   Sparrow-size 
Virginia Gibson, with sparkling blue eyes and a cheerful 
smile, made a suitably perky Amy, while Melisande Congdon, as the real 
aunt, was positively 
monumental in the very best Gibson Girl manner.

All told, "Where's Charley?" ought not to be missed. 
It has a fast pace, excellent music, expert direction, and not only 
a good comedian, but an appealing person in his own right, Mr& 
Berman.

The Broadway Theater League of Rhode Island presents C& 
Edwin Knill's and Martin Tahse's production of {"FIORELLO!"} 
at Veterans Memorial Auditorium. The book is by Jerome 
Weidman and George Abbott, music by Jerry Bock, lyrics by Sheldon 
Harnick, choreography by Peter Gennaro, scenery, costumes and 
lighting by William and Jean Eckart, musical direction by Jack Elliott, 
and the production was directed by Mr& Abbott. The cast: 
@   This is one of the happier events of the season. 
The company which performed the Pulitzer Prize musical here last night 
and will repeat it twice today is full of bounce, the politicians 
are in fine voice, the chorines evoke happy memories, and the Little 
Flower rides to break a lance again.   I saw "Fiorello!" 
performed in New York by the original cast and I think this company 
is every bit as good, and perhaps better.   Certainly in the matter 
of principals there is nothing lacking. Bob Carroll may not bear 
quite as close a physical resemblance to LaGuardia as Tom Bosley 
does, but I was amazed at the way he became more and more Fiorello 
as the evening progressed, until one had to catch one's self up and 
remember that this wasn't really LaGuardia come back among us again.

Then Rudy Bond was simply grand as Ben, the distraught 
Republican Party district chieftain. And Paul Lipson, as Morris, 
the faithful one who never gets home to his Shirley's dinner, was 
fine, too.   As for the ladies, they were full of charm, and sincerity, 
and deep and abiding affection for this hurrying driving, honest, 
little man. Charlotte Fairchild was excellent as the loyal Marie, 
who became the second Mrs& LaGuardia, singing and acting with 
remarkable conviction. Jen Nelson, as Thea, his first wife, managed 
to make that short role impressive. And little Zeme North, a Dora 
with real spirit and verve, was fascinating whether she was singing of 
her love for Floyd, the cop who becomes sewer commissioner and then 
is promoted into garbage, or just dancing to display her exuberant feelings.

Such fascinating novelties in the score as the fugual 
treatment of "On the Side of the Angels" and "Politics and Poker" 
were handled splendidly, and I thought Rudy Bond and his band 
of tuneful ward-heelers made "Little Tin Box" even better than 
it was done by the New York cast; all the words of its clever 
lyrics came through with perfect clarity.   The party at Floyd's 
penthouse gave the "chorines" a chance for a nostalgic frolic 
through all those hackneyed routines which have become a classic choreographic 
statement of the era's nonsense.   LaGuardia's multi-lingual 
rallies, when he is running for Congress, are well staged, 
and wind up in a wild Jewish folk-dance that is really great musical 
theater.   Martin Tahse has established quite a reputation for 
himself as a successful stager of touring productions. Not a corner 
has been visibly cut in this one. The sets are remarkably elaborate 
for a road-show that doesn't pause long in any one place, and they 
are devised so that they shift with a minimum of interruption or obtrusiveness. 
(Several times recently I have wondered whether shows were 
being staged for the sake of the script or just to entertain the audience 
with the spectacle of scenery being shifted right in front of their 
eyes. I'm glad to say there's none of that distraction in this 
"Fiorello!")   It has all been done in superb style, 
and the result is a show which deserves the support of every person hereabouts 
who enjoys good musical theater.

{LOEW'S THEATER} presents {"Where the Boys are"}, 
an ~MGM picture produced by Joe Pasternak and directed 
by Henry Levin from a screenplay by George Wells. The cast: @

Since the hero, a sterling and upright fellow, is a rich Brown 
senior, while two Yalies are cast as virtual rapists, I suppose 
I should disqualify myself from sitting in judgment on "Where the 
Boys are", but I shall do nothing of the sort.   Instead- 
and not just to prove my objectivity- I hasten to report that it's 
a highly amusing film which probably does a fairly accurate job of 
reporting on the Easter vacation shenanigans of collegians down in Fort 
Lauderdale, and that it seems to come to grips quite honestly with 
the moral problem that most commonly vexes youngsters in this age group- 
that is to say, sex.   The answers the girls give struck 
me as reasonably varied and healthily individual. If most of them weren't 
exactly specific- well, that's the way it is in life, I guess. 
But at least it's reassuring to see some teenagers who don't 
profess to know all the answers and are thinking about their problems 
instead.   "Where the Boys Are" also has a juvenile bounce 
that makes for a refreshing venture in comedy. There are some sharp 
and whipping lines and some hilariously funny situations- the best 
of the latter being a mass impromptu plunge into a nightclub tank where 
a "mermaid" is performing.   Most of the female faces are 
new, or at least not too familiar. Dolores Hart, is charming in a leading 
role, and quite believable. I was delighted with Paula Prentiss' 
comedy performance, which was as fresh and unstilted as one's 
highest hopes might ask. A couple of the males made good comedy, too- 
Jim Hutton and Frank Gorshin.   The only performance which 
was too soft for me was that of Yvette Mimieux, but since someone 
had to become the victim of despoilers, just to emphasize that such things 
do happen at these fracases, I suppose this was the attitude the 
part called for. I must say, however, that I preferred the acting that 
had something of a biting edge to it.   To anyone who remembers 
Newport at its less than maximum violence, this view of what the 
boys and girls do in the springtime before they wing north for the Jazz 
Festival ought to prove entertaining.   The second feature, 
{"The Price of Silence"}, is a British detective story that 
will talk your head off.

The superb intellectual and spiritual vitality of William James 
was never more evident than in his letters. Here was a man with an 
enormous gift for living as well as thinking. To both persons and ideas 
he brought the same delighted interest, the same open-minded relish 
for what was unique in each, the same discriminating sensibility and 
quicksilver intelligence, the same gallantry of judgment.   For 
this latest addition to the Great Letters Series, under the general 
editorship of Louis Kronenberger, Miss Hardwick has made a selection 
which admirably displays the variety of James's genius, not 
to mention the felicities of his style. And how he could <write!> 
His famous criticism of brother Henry's "third style" is surely 
as subtly, even elegantly, worded an analysis of the latter's intricate 
air castles as Henry himself could ever have produced. His letter 
to his daughter on the pains of growing up is surely as trenchant, 
forthright, and warmly understanding a piece of advice as ever a grown-up 
penned to a sensitive child, and with just the right tone of unpatronizing 
good humor. #@#

Most of all, his letters to his philosophic 
colleagues show a magnanimity as well as an honesty which help 
to explain Whitehead's reference to James as "that adorable genius". 
Miss Hardwick speaks of his "superb gift for intellectual 
friendship", and it is certainly a joy to see the intellectual life 
lived so free from either academic aridity or passionate dogmatism.

This is a virtue of which we have great need in a society where 
there seems to be an increasing lack of communication- or even desire 
for communication- between differing schools of thought. It holds 
an equally valuable lesson for a society where the word "intellectual" 
has become a term of opprobrium to millions of well-meaning people 
who somehow imagine that it must be destructive of the simpler human 
virtues.   To his Harvard colleague, Josiah Royce, whose philosophic 
position differed radically from his own, James could write, 
"Different as our minds are, yours has nourished mine, as no other 
social influence ever has, and in converse with you I have always felt 
that my life was being lived importantly".   Of another colleague, 
George Santayana, he could write: "The great event in 
my life recently has been the reading of Santayana's book. Although 
I absolutely reject the Platonism of it, I have literally squealed 
with delight at the imperturbable perfection with which the position 
is laid down on page after page". #@#

Writing to his colleague 
George Herbert Palmer- "Glorious old Palmer", as he addresses 
him- James says that if only the students at Harvard could really 
understand Royce, Santayana, Palmer, and himself and see that 
their varying systems are "so many religions, ways of fronting life, 
and worth fighting for", then Harvard would have a genuine philosophic 
universe. "The best condition of it would be an open conflict 
and rivalry of the diverse systems **h. The world might ring with the 
struggle, if we devoted ourselves exclusively to belaboring each other".

The "belaboring" is of course jocular, yet James was 
not lacking in fundamental seriousness- unless we measure him by 
that ultimate seriousness of the great religious leader or thinker who 
stakes all on his vision of God. To James this vision never quite 
came, despite his appreciation of it in others.   But there is a 
dignity and even a hint of the inspired prophet in his words to one 
correspondent: 
"You ask what I am going to 'reply' to Bradley. 
But why need one reply to everything and everybody? **h I think 
that readers generally hate <minute> polemics and recriminations. 
All polemic of ours should, I believe, be either very broad statements 
of contrast, or fine points treated singly, and as far as possible 
impersonally **h. As far as the rising generation goes, why not simply 
express ourselves positively, and trust that the truer view quietly 
will displace the other. Here again 'God will know his own'".

The collected works of James Thurber, now numbering 25 volumes 
(including the present exhibit) represent a high standard of literary 
excellence, as every schoolboy knows. The primitive-eclogue quality 
of his drawings, akin to that of graffiti scratched on a cave wall, 
is equally well known. About all that remains to be said is that the 
present selection, most of which appeared first in The New Yorker, 
comprises (as usual) a slightly unstrung necklace, held together by little 
more than a slender thread cunningly inserted in the spine of the 
book.   The one unifying note, if any, is sounded in the initial 
article entitled: "How to Get Through the Day". It is repeated 
at intervals in some rather sadly desperate word-games for insomniacs, 
the hospitalized, and others forced to rely on inner resources, 
including (in the ~P's alone) "palindromes", "paraphrases", 
and "parodies".   "The Tyranny of Trivia" suggests 
arbitrary alphabetical associations to induce slumber. And new vistas 
of hairshirt asceticism are opened by scholarly monographs entitled: 
"Friends, Romans, Countrymen, Lend Me Your Ear-Muffs", 
"Such a Phrase as Drifts Through Dream", and "The New Vocabularianism". 
Some of Thurber's curative methods involve strong 
potions of mixed metaphor, malapropism, and gobbledygook and are recommended 
for use only in extreme cases. #@#

A burlesque paean 
entitled: "Hark the Herald Tribune, Times, and All the Other 
Angels Sing" brilliantly succeeds in exaggerating even motion-picture 
ballyhooey. "How the Kooks Crumble" features an amusingly 
accurate take-off on sneaky announcers who attempt to homogenize radio-~TV 
commercials, and "The Watchers of the Night" is a veritable 
waking nightmare.   A semi-serious literary document entitled 
"The Wings of Henry James" is noteworthy, if only for a keenly 
trenchant though little-known comment on the master's difficult 
later period by modest Owen Wister, author of "The Virginian". 
James, he remarks in a letter to a friend, "is attempting the impossible 
**h namely, to produce upon the reader, as a painting produces 
upon the gazer, a number of superimposed, simultaneous impressions. He 
would like to put several sentences on top of each other so that you 
could read them all at once, and get all at once, the various shadings 
and complexities".   Equally penetrating in its fashion is 
the following remark by a lady in the course of a literary conversation: 
"So much has already been written about everything that you can't 
find out anything about it". Or the mildly epigrammatic utterance 
(also a quotation): "Woman's place is in the wrong". Who 
but Thurber can be counted on to glean such nectareous essences?

A tribute to midsummer "bang-sashes" seems terribly funny, 
though it would be hard to explain why. "One of them banged the sash 
of the window nearest my bed around midnight in July and I leaped 
out of sleep and out of bed. 'It's just a bat' said my wife reassuringly, 
and I sighed with relief. 'Thank God for that' I said; 
'I thought it was a human being'". #@#

In a sense, 
perhaps, Thurber is indebted artistically to the surrealist painter 
(was it Salvador Dali?) who first conceived the startling fancy of 
a picture window in the abdomen. That is, it is literally a picture 
window: you don't see into the viscera; you see a picture- trees, 
or flowers. This is something like what Thurber's best effects 
are like, if I am not mistaken.   Though no longer able to turn 
out his protoplasmic pen-and-ink sketches (several old favorites are 
scattered through the present volume) Thurber has retained unimpaired 
his vision of humor as a thing of simple, unaffected humanness. In 
his concluding paragraph he writes: "The devoted writer of humor 
will continue to try to come as close to truth as he can". For many 
readers Thurber comes closer than anyone else in sight.

The latest Low is a puzzler. The master's hand has lost none 
of its craft. He is at his usual best in exposing the shams and self-deceptions 
of political and diplomatic life in the fifties. The reader 
meets a few old friends like Blimp and the ~TUC horse, and 
becomes better acquainted with new members of the cast of characters like 
the bomb itself, and civilization in her classic robe watching the 
nuclear arms race, her hair standing straight out.   But there 
is a difference between the present volume and the early Low. There 
is fear in the fifties as his title suggests and as his competent drawings 
show. But there was terror in the thirties when the Nazis were 
on the loose and in those days Low struck like lightning. #@#

Anyone 
can draw his own conclusions from this difference. It might be 
argued that the Communists are less inhuman than the Nazis and furnish 
the artist with drama in a lower key. But this argument cannot be 
pushed very far because the Communist system makes up for any shortcomings 
of its leaders in respect to corrosion. The Communists wield 
a power unknown to Hitler. And the leading issue, that of piecemeal 
aggression, remains the same. This is drama enough.   Do we ourselves 
offer Mr& Low less of a crusade? In the thirties we would 
not face our enemy; that was a nightmarish situation and Low was 
in his element. Now we have stood up to the Communists; we are stronger 
and more self-confident- and Low cannot so easily put us to rights.

Or does the reason for less Jovian drawings lie elsewhere? 
It might be that Low has seen too many stupidities and that they 
do not outrage him now. He writes, "Confucius held that in times 
of stress one should take short views- only up to lunchtime".

Whatever the cause, his mood in the fifties rarely rises above 
the level of the capably sardonic. Dulles? He does not seem to have 
caught the subtleties of the man. McCarthy? The skies turn dark 
but the clouds do not loose their wrath. Suez? Low seems to have 
supported Eden at first and then relented because things worked out differently, 
so there is no fire in his eye. #@#

Stalin's death, 
Churchill's farewell to public life, Hillary and Tensing on Everest, 
Quemoy and Matsu- all subjects for a noble anger or an accolade. 
Instead the cartoons seem to deal with foibles. Their Eisenhower 
is insubstantial. Did Low decide to let well enough alone when 
he made his selections?   He often drew the bomb. He showed puny 
men attacked by splendidly tyrannical machines. And Khrushchev turned 
out to be prime copy for the most witty caricaturist of them all. 
But, but and but.   Look in this book for weak mortals and only 
on occasion for virtues and vices on the heroic scale. Read the moderately 
brief text, not for captions, sometimes for tart epigrams, once 
in a while for an explosion in the middle of your fixed ideas.

A gray fox with a patch on one eye- confidence man, city slicker, 
lebensraum specialist- tries to take over Catfish Bend in this 
third relaxed allegory from Mr& Burman's refreshing Louisiana 
animal community.   The fox is all ingratiating smiles when he 
arrives from New Orleans, accompanied by one wharf rat. But like all 
despots, as he builds his following from among the gullible, he grows 
more threatening toward those who won't follow- such solid citizens 
as Doc Raccoon; Judge Black, the vegetarian black snake; 
and the eagle, who leads the bird community when he is not too busy in 
Washington posing for fifty-cent pieces.   As soon as the fox 
has taken hold on most of the populace he imports more wharf rats, who, 
of course, say they are the aggrieved victims of an extermination 
campaign 
in the city. (The followers of bullies invariably are aggrieved 
about the very things 
they plan to do to others.) They train the mink 
and other animals to fight. And pretty soon gray fox is announcing that 
he won't have anyone around that's against him, and setting out 
to break his second territorial treaty with the birds.   Robert 
Hillyer, the poet, writes in his introduction to this brief animal 
fable that Mr& Burman ought to win a Nobel Prize for the Catfish 
Bend series. He may have a point in urging that decadent themes be 
given fewer prizes. But it's hard to imagine Mr& Burman as a Nobel 
laureate on the basis of these charming but not really momentous 
fables.   In substance they lie somewhere between the Southern 
dialect animal stories of Joel Chandler Harris (Uncle Remus) and 
the polished, witty fables of James Thurber.

George Kennan's account of relations between Russia and the 
West from the fall of Tsarism to the end of World War /2, is the 
finest piece of diplomatic history that has appeared in many years. 
It combines qualities that are seldom found in one work: Scrupulous 
scholarship, a fund of personal experience, a sense of drama and characterization 
and a broad grasp of the era's great historical issues.

In short, the book, based largely on lectures delivered at Harvard 
University, is both reliable and readable; the author possesses 
an uncommonly fine English style, and he is dealing with subjects 
of vast importance that are highly topical for our time. If Mr& 
Kennan is sometimes a little somber in his appraisals, if his analysis 
of how Western diplomacy met the challenge of an era of great wars 
and social revolutions is often critical and pessimistic- well, the 
record itself is not too encouraging.   Mr& Kennan takes careful 
account of every mitigating circumstance in recalling the historical 
atmosphere in which mistaken decisions were taken. But he rejects, 
perhaps a little too sweepingly, the theory that disloyal and pro-Communist 
influences may have contributed to the policy of appeasing Stalin 
which persisted until after the end of the war and reached its high 
point at the Yalta Conference in February, 1945.   After all, 
Alger Hiss, subsequently convicted of perjury in denying that he 
gave secret State Department documents to Soviet agents, was at Yalta. 
And Harry Dexter White, implicated in F&B&I& reports 
in Communist associations, was one of the architects of the Morgenthau 
Plan, which had it ever been put into full operation, would have 
simply handed Germany to Stalin. One item in this unhappy scheme was 
to have Germany policed exclusively by its continental neighbors, 
among whom only the Soviet Union possessed real military strength.

It is quite probable, however, that stupidity, inexperience and 
childish adherence to slogans like "unconditional surrender" had 
more to do with the unsatisfactory settlements at the end of the war than 
treason or sympathy with Communism. Mr& Kennan sums up his judgment 
of what went wrong this way: 

#DASHED HOPE#

"You see, 
first of all and in a sense as the source of all other ills, the unshakeable 
American commitment to the principle of unconditional surrender: 
The tendency to view any war in which we might be involved not as 
a means of achieving limited objectives in the way of changes in a given 
status quo, but as a struggle to the death between total virtue and 
total evil, with the result that the war had absolutely to be fought 
to the complete destruction of the enemy's power, no matter what disadvantages 
or complications this might involve for the more distant 
future".   Recognizing that there could have been no effective 
negotiated peace with Hitler, he points out the shocking failure to 
give support to the anti-Nazi underground, which very nearly eliminated 
Hitler in 1944. A veteran diplomat with an extraordinary knowledge 
of Russian language, history and literature, Kennan recalls how, at 
the time of Hitler's attack on the Soviet Union in 1941, he penned 
a private note to a State Department official, expressing the hope 
that "never would we associate ourselves with Russian purposes in 
the areas of eastern Europe beyond her own boundaries".   The 
hope was vain. With justified bitterness the author speaks of "what 
seems to me to have been an inexcusable body of ignorance about the 
nature of the Russian Communist movement, about the history of its 
diplomacy, about what had happened in the purges, and about what had 
been going on in Poland and the Baltic States". He also speaks of 
Franklin D& Roosevelt's "puerile" assumption that "if only 
he (Stalin) could be exposed to the persuasive charm of someone 
like F&D&R& himself, ideological preconceptions would melt and 
Russia's co-operation with the West could be easily arranged".

No wonder Khrushchev's first message to President Kennedy 
was a wistful desire for the return of the "good old days" of Roosevelt.

This fascinating story begins with a sketch, rich in 
personal detail, of the glancing mutual impact of World War /1, and 
the two instalments of the Russian Revolution. The first of these 
involved the replacement of the Tsar by a liberal Provisional Government 
in March, 1917; the second, the seizure of power by the Bolsheviks 
(who later called themselves Communists) in November of the 
same year.   As Kennan shows, the judgment of the Allied governments 
about what was happening in Russia was warped by the obsession 
of defeating Germany. They were blind to the evidence that nothing 
could keep the Russian people fighting. They attributed everything 
that went wrong in Russia to German influence and intrigue. This, 
more than any other factor, led to the fiasco of Allied intervention. 
As the author very justly says:   "Had a world war not been 
in progress, there would never, under any conceivable stretch of the 
imagination, have been an Allied intervention in North Russia". 
The scope and significance of this intervention have been grossly exaggerated 
by Communist propaganda; here Kennan, operating with precise 
facts and figures, performs an excellent job of debunking. 

#PLEBIAN 
DICTATORS#

Of many passages in the book that exemplify the author's 
vivid style, the characterizations of the two plebeian dictators 
whose crimes make those of crowned autocrats pale by comparison may 
be selected. On Stalin:   "This was a man of incredible criminality, 
of a criminality effectively without limits; a man apparently 
foreign to the very experience of love, without mercy or pity; 
a man in whose entourage none was ever safe; a man whose hand was set 
against all that could not be useful to him at the moment; a man who 
was most dangerous of all to those who were his closest collaborators 
in crime **h".   And here is Kennan's image of Hitler, 
Stalin's 
temporary collaborator in the subjugation and oppression of 
weaker peoples, and his later enemy:   "Behind that Charlie 
Chaplin moustache and that truant lock of hair that always covered 
his forehead, behind the tirades and the sulky silences, the passionate 
orations and the occasional dull evasive stare, behind the prejudices, 
the cynicism, the total amorality of behavior, behind even the tendency 
to great strategic mistakes, there lay a statesman of no mean qualities: 
Shrewd, calculating, in many ways realistic, endowed- like 
Stalin- with considerable powers of dissimulation, capable of playing 
his cards very close to his chest when he so desired, yet bold and 
resolute in his decisions, and possessing one gift Stalin did not 
possess: The ability to rouse men to fever pitch of personal devotion 
and enthusiasm by the power of the spoken word".   Two criticisms 
of this generally admirable and fascinating book involve the treatment 
of wartime diplomacy which is jagged at the edges- there is 
no mention of the Potsdam Conference or the Morgenthau Plan. And 
in a concluding chapter about America's stance in the contemporary 
world, one senses certain misplacements of emphasis and a failure to come 
to grips with the baffling riddle of our time: How to deal with 
a wily and aggressive enemy without appeasement and without war.

But one should not ask for everything. Mr& Kennan, who has recently 
abandoned authorship for a new round of diplomacy as the recently 
appointed American ambassador to Yugoslavia, is not the only man who 
finds it easier to portray the past than to prescribe for the future. 
The story of a quarter of a century of Soviet-Western relations 
is vitally important, and it is told with the fire of a first-rate historical 
narrator. 
The Ireland we usually hear about in the theater is a place of bitter 
political 
or domestic unrest, lightened occasionally with flashes of native wit 
and charm. In "Donnybrook", there is quite a different Eire, a 
rural land where singing, dancing, fist-fighting and romancing are the 
thing. There is plenty of violence, to be sure, but it is a nice violence 
and no one gets killed. By and large, Robert McEnroe's adaptation 
of Maurice Walsh's film, "The Quiet Man", provides 
the entertainment it set out to, and we have a lively musical show if 
not a superlative one. _@_ This is the tale of one John Enright, 
an American who has accidentally killed a man in the prize ring 
and is now trying to forget about it in a quiet place where he may become 
a quiet man. But Innesfree, where Ellen Roe Danaher and her 
bullying brother, Will, live, is no place for a man who will not use 
his fists. So Enright's courting of the mettlesome Ellen is impeded 
considerably, thereby providing the tale which is told. You may be 
sure he marries her in the end and has a fine old knockdown fight with 
the brother, and that there are plenty of minor scraps along the way 
to ensure that you understand what the word Donnybrook means. 
Then there is a matchmaker, one Mikeen Flynn, a role for which Eddie 
Foy was happily selected. Now there is no reason in the world why 
a matchmaker in Ireland should happen also to be a talented soft-shoe 
dancer and gifted improviser of movements of the limbs, torso and neck, 
except that these talents add immensely to the enjoyment of the play. 
Mr& Foy is a joy, having learned his dancing by practicing it 
until he is practically perfect. His matchmaking is, naturally, incidental, 
and it only serves Flynn right when a determined widow takes 
him by the ear and leads him off to matrimony.   Art Lund, a fine 
big actor with a great head of blond hair and a good voice, impersonates 
Enright. Although he is not graced with the subtleties of romantic 
technique, that's not what an ex-prize fighter is supposed to have, 
anyway. Joan Fagan, a fiery redhead who can impress you that she 
has a temper whether she really has one or not, plays Ellen, and sings 
the role very well, too. If the mettle which Ellen exhibits has 
a bit of theatrical dross in it, never mind; she fits into the general 
scheme well enough.   Susan Johnson, as the widow, spends the 
first half of the play running a bar and singing about the unlamented 
death of her late husband and the second half trying to acquire a new 
one. She has a good, firm delivery of songs and adds to the solid virtues 
of the evening.   Then there are a pair of old biddies played 
by Grace Carney and Sibly Bowan who may be right off the shelf 
of stock Irish characters, but they put such a combination of good 
will and malevolence into their parts that they're quite entertaining. 
And in the role of Will Danaher, Philip Bosco roars and sneers 
sufficiently to intimidate not only one American but the whole British 
army, if he chose.   "Donnybrook" is no "Brigadoon", 
but it does have some very nice romantic background touches and some 
excellent dancing. The ballads are sweet and sad, and the music generally 
competent. It sometimes threatens to linger in the memory after 
the final curtain, and some of it, such as the catchy "Sez I", 
does. "A Toast To The Bride", sung by Clarence Nordstrom, playing 
a character called Old Man Toomey, is quite simple, direct and 
touching.   The men of Innesfree are got up authentically in 
cloth caps and sweaters, and their dancing and singing is fine. So is 
that of the limber company of lasses who whirl and glide and quickstep 
under Jack Cole's expert choreographic direction. The male dancers 
sometimes wear kilts and their performance in them is spirited and 
stimulating.   Rouben Ter-Arutunian, in his stage settings, 
often uses the scrim curtain behind which Mr& Cole has placed couples 
or groups who sing and set the mood for the scenes which are to follow. 
There is no reason why most theatergoers should not have a pretty 
good time at "Donnybrook", unless they are permanently in the 
mood of Enright when he sings about how easily he could hate the lovable 
Irish.

WE can all breathe more easily this morning- more easily 
and joyously, too- because Joshua Logan has turned the stage show, 
"Fanny", into a delightful and heart-warming film.   The 
task of taking the raw material of Marcel Pagnol's original trio 
of French films about people of the waterfront in Marseilles and putting 
them again on the screen, after their passage through the Broadway 
musical idiom, was a delicate and perilous one, indeed. More than 
the fans of Pagnol's old films and of their heroic star, the great 
Raimu, were looking askance at the project. The fans of the musical 
were, too.   But now the task is completed and the uncertainty 
resolved with the opening of the English-dialogue picture at the Music 
Hall yesterday. Whether fan of the Pagnol films or stage show, whether 
partial to music or no, you can't help but derive joy from this 
picture if you have a sense of humor and a heart.

SOME of the New York Philharmonic musicians who live in 
the suburbs spent yesterday morning digging themselves free from snow. 
A tiny handful never did make the concert. But, after a fifteen-minute 
delay, the substantially complete Philharmonic assembled on stage 
for the afternoon's proceedings. They faced a rather small audience, 
as quite a few subscribers apparently had decided to forego the pleasures 
of the afternoon.   It was an excellent concert. Paul 
Paray, rounding out his current stint with the orchestra, is a solid 
musician, and the Philharmonic plays for him. Their collaboration in 
the Beethoven Second Symphony was lucid, intelligent and natural sounding. 
It was not a heavy, ponderous Beethoven. The music sang nicely, 
sprinted evenly when necessary, was properly accented and balanced. 
#@#
 
 The Franck symphonic poem, "Psyche", is a 
lush, 
sweet-sounding affair that was pleasant to encounter once again. Fortunate 
for the music itself, it is not too frequent a visitor; if 
it were, its heavily chromatic harmonies would soon become cloying.

Mr& Paray resisted the temptation to over-emphasize the melodic 
elements of the score. He did not let the strings, for instance, 
weep, whine or get hysterical. His interpretation was a model of refinement 
and accuracy.   And in the Prokofieff ~C major Piano 
Concerto, with Zadel Skolovsky as soloist, he was an admirable partner. 
Mr& Skolovsky's approach to the concerto was bold, sweeping 
and tonally percussive. He swept through the music with ease, in a 
non-sentimental and ultra-efficient manner. #@#

An impressive technician, 
Mr& Skolovsky has fine rhythm, to boot. His tone is the 
weakest part of his equipment; it tends to be hard and colorless. 
A school of thought has it that those attributes are exactly what this 
concerto needs. It is, after all, a non-romantic work (even with the 
big, juicy melody of the second movement); and the composer himself 
was called the "age of steel pianist". But granted all this, one 
still would have liked to have heard a little more tonal nuance than 
Mr& Skolovsky supplied.   Taken as a whole, though, it was 
a strong performance from both pianist and orchestra. Mr& Skolovsky 
fully deserved the warm reception he received.   A new work on 
the program was Nikolai Lopatnikoff's "Festival Overture", 
receiving its first New York hearing. This was composed last year as 
a salute to the automobile industry. It is not program music, though. 
It runs a little more than ten minutes, is workmanlike, busy, methodical 
and featureless.

"La Gioconda", like it or not, is a singer's opera. And 
so, of course, it is a fan's opera as well. Snow or no, the fans 
were present in force at the Metropolitan Opera last night for a performance 
of the Ponchielli work.   So the plot creaks, the sets 
are decaying, the costumes are pre-historic, the orchestra was sloppy 
and not very well connected with what the singers were doing. After 
all, the opera has juicy music to sing and the goodies are well distributed, 
with no less than six leading parts.   One of those parts 
is that of evil, evil Barnaba, the spy. His wicked deeds were carried 
on by Anselmo Colzani, who was taking the part for the first time 
with the company.   He has the temperament and the stage presence 
for a rousing villain and he sang with character and strong tone. 
What was lacking was a real sense of phrase, the kind of legato singing 
that would have added a dimension of smoothness to what is, after 
all, a very oily character.   Regina Resnik as Laura and Cesare 
Siepi as Alvise also were new to the cast, but only with respect 
to this season; they have both sung these parts here before. Laura 
is a good role for Miss Resnik, and she gave it force, dramatic color 
and passion.   Mr& Siepi was, as always, a consummate actor; 
with a few telling strokes he characterized Alvise magnificently. 
Part of this characterization was, of course, accomplished with the 
vocal chords. His singing was strong and musical; unfortunately his 
voice was out of focus and often spread in quality.   Eileen Farrell 
in the title role, Mignon Dunn as La Cieca and Richard Tucker 
as Enzo were holdovers from earlier performances this season, and 
all contributed to a vigorous performance. If only they and Fausto 
Cleva in the pit had got together a bit more. @

"MELODIOUS birds sing madrigals" saith the poet and no 
better description of the madrigaling of the Deller Consort could 
be imagined.   Their Vanguard album {Madrigal Masterpieces} 
(~BG 609; stereo ~BGS 5031) is a good sample of the special, 
elegant art of English madrigal singing. It also makes a fine introduction 
to the international art form with good examples of Italian 
and English madrigals plus several French "chansons". 
The English have managed to hold onto their madrigal tradition better 
than anyone else. The original impulses came to England late (in the 
sixteenth century) and continue strong long after everyone else had 
gone on to the baroque basso continuo, sonatas, operas and the like.

Even after Elizabethan traditions were weakened by the Cromwellian 
interregnum, the practice of singing together- choruses, catches 
and glees- always flourished. The English never again developed 
a strong native music that could obliterate the traces of an earlier 
great age the way, say, the opera in Italy blotted out the Italian 
madrigal. 

#EARLY INTEREST#

Latter-day interest in Elizabethan singing 
dates well back into the nineteenth century in England, much ahead 
of similar revivals in other countries. As a result no comparable 
literature of the period is better known and better studied nor more 
often performed than the English madrigal.   Naturally, Mr& 
Deller and the other singers in his troupe are most charming and elegant 
when they are squarely in their tradition and singing music by their 
countrymen: William Byrd, Thomas Morley and Thomas Tomkins. 
There is an almost instrumental quality to their singing, with a tendency 
to lift out important lines and make them lead the musical texture. 
Both techniques give the music purity and clarity.   Claude 
Jannequin's vocal description of a battle (the French equivalents 
of tarantara, rum-tum-tum, and boom-boom-boom are very picturesque) is 
lots of fun, and the singers get a sense of grace and shape into other 
chansons by Jannequin and Lassus. Only with the more sensual, intense 
and baroque expressions of Marenzio, Monteverdi and Gesualdo 
does the singing seem a little superficial.   Nevertheless, the 
musicality, accuracy and infectious charm of these performances, excellently 
reproduced, make it an attractive look-see at the period. The 
works are presented chronologically. Texts and translations are provided. 

#ELEGANCE AND COLOR#

The elements of elegance and color in Jannequin 
are strong French characteristics. Baroque instrumental music 
in Italy and Germany tends to be strong, lively, intense, controlled 
and quite abstract. In France, it remained always more picturesque, 
more dancelike, more full of flavor.   Couperin and Rameau 
gave titles to nearly everything they wrote, not in the later sense 
of "program music" but as a kind of nonmusical reference for the close, 
clear musical forms filled with keen wit and precise utterance.

Both composers turn up on new imports from France. ~BAM 
is the unlikely name of a French recording company whose full label is 
Editions de la boite a musique. They specialize in out-of-the-way 
items and old French music naturally occupies a good deal of their attention. 
{Sonates et Concerts Royaux} of Couperin le grand occupy 
two disks (~LD056 and ~LD060) and reveal the impeccable taste 
and workmanship of this master- delicate, flexible and gemlike.

The Concerts- Nos& 2, 6, 9, 10 and 14 are represented- 
are really closer to chamber suites than to concertos in the Italian 
sense. The sonatas, "La Francaise", "La Sultane", "L'Astree" 
and "L'Imperiale", are often more elaborately worked 
out and, in fact, show a strong Italian influence.   Couperin 
also turns up along with some lesser-known contemporaries on a disk 
called {Musique Francaise du /18,e Siecle} (~BAM ~LD 
060). Jean-Marie LeClair still is remembered a bit, but Bodin de 
Beismortier, Corrette and Mondonville are hardly household words. 
What is interesting about these chamber works here is how they all reveal 
the aspect of French music that was moving toward the rococo.

The Couperin "La Steinkerque", with its battle music, brevity, 
wit and refined simplicity, already shakes off Corelli and points 
towards the mid-century elegances that ended the baroque era. If 
Couperin shows the fashionable trend, the others do so all the more.

All these records have close, attractive sound and the performances 
by a variety of instrumentalists is characteristic.   Rameau's 
{Six Concerts en Sextuor,} recorded by L'orchestre de 
chambre Pierre Menet (~BAM ~LD 046), turn out to be harpsichord 
pieces arranged for strings apparently by the composer himself. 
The strange, delightful little character pieces with their odd and sometimes 
inexplicable titles are still evocative and gracious.   {Maitres 
Allemands des /17,e et /18,e Siecles} contains music 
by Pachelbel, Buxtehude, Rosenmueller and Telemann, well performed 
by the Ensemble Instrumental Sylvie Spycket (~BAM ~LD 
035).

Rococo music- a lot of it- was played in Carnegie Recital 
Hall on Saturday night in the first of four concerts being sponsored 
this season by a new organization known as Globe Concert Arts.

Works by J& C& Bach, Anton Craft, Joseph Haydn, Giuseppe 
Sammartini, Comenico Dragonetti and J& G& Janitsch were 
performed by seven instrumentalists including Anabel Brieff, flutist, 
Josef Marx, oboist, and Robert Conant, pianist and harpsichordist.

Since rococo music tends to be pretty and elegant above all, 
it can seem rather vacuous to twentieth-century ears that have grown 
accustomed to the stress and dissonances of composers from Beethoven 
to Boulez.   Thus there was really an excess of eighteenth-century 
charm as one of these light-weight pieces followed another on Saturday 
night. Each might find a useful place in a varied musical program, 
but taken together they grew quite tiresome.   The performances 
were variable, those of the full ensemble being generally satisfying, 
some by soloists proving rather trying. @

Ellie Mao, soprano, and Frederick Fuller, baritone, presented 
a program of folksongs entitled "East Meets West" in Carnegie 
Recital Hall last night. They were accompanied by Anna Mi Lee, 
pianist.   Selections from fifteen countries were sung as solos 
and duets in a broad range of languages. Songs from China and Japan 
were reserved exclusively for Miss Mao, who is a native of China, 
and those of the British Isles were sung by Mr& Fuller, who is 
English by birth.   This was not a program intended to illustrate 
authentic folk styles. On the contrary, Miss Mao and Mr& Fuller 
chose many of their arrangements from the works of composers such 
as Mendelssohn, Dvorak, Canteloube, Copland and Britten. Thre 
was, 
therefore, more musical substance in the concert than might have been 
the case otherwise. The performances were assured, communicative and 
pleasingly informal. @

WHAT was omitted from "A Neglected Education" were 
those essentials known as "the facts of life".   Chabrier's 
little one-act operetta, presented yesterday afternoon at Town Hall, 
is a fragile, precious little piece, very French, not without wit 
and charm. The poor uneducated newlywed, a certain Gontran de Boismassif, 
has his problems in getting the necessary information. The humor 
of the situation can be imagined.   It all takes place in the 
eighteenth century. What a silly, artificial way of life, Chabrier 
and his librettists chuckle. But they wish they could bring it back. 
#@#

Chabrier's delightful music stands just at the point where 
the classical, rationalist tradition, (handed down to Chabrier largely 
in the form of operetta and salon music) becomes virtually neo-classicism. 
The musical cleverness and spirit plus a strong sense of taste 
and measure save a wry little joke from becoming either bawdy or 
mawkish.   The simple, clever production was also able to tread 
the thin line between those extremes. Arlene Saunders was charming as 
poor Gontran. Yes, Arlene is her name; the work uses the old eighteenth-century 
tradition of giving the part of a young inexperienced 
youth to a soprano. Benita Valente was delightful as the young wife 
and John Parella was amusing as the tutor who failed to do all his tutoring.

The work was presented as the final event in the Town 
Hall Festival of Music. It was paired with a Darius Milhaud opera, 
"The Poor Sailor", set to a libretto by Jean Cocteau, a 
kind of Grand Guignol by the sea, a sailor returns, unrecognized, and 
gets done in by his wife.   With the exception of a few spots, 
Milhaud's music mostly churns away with his usual collection of ditties, 
odd harmonies, and lumbering, satiric orchestration.

Had a funny experience at Newport yesterday afternoon. Sat there 
and as a woman sang, she kept getting thinner and thinner, right 
before my eyes, and the eyes of some 5,500 other people.   I make 
this observation about the lady, Miss Judy Garland, because she brought 
up the subject herself in telling a story about a British female 
reporter who flattered her terribly in London recently and then wrote 
in the paper the next day:   "Judy Garland has arrived 
in London. She's not chubby. She's not plump. She's fat".

But who cares, when the lady sings? Certainly not the largest 
afternoon audience Newport has ever had at a jazz concert and the 
most attentive and quiet. They applauded every number, not only at its 
conclusion but also at the first statement of the theme- sometimes 
at the first chord.   And Judy sang the lovely old familiar things 
which seemed, at times, a blessed relief from the way-out compositions 
of the progressive jazzmen who have dominated these proceedings. 
Things like "When You're Smiling", "Almost Like Being In 
Love", "Do It Again", "Born to Wander", "Alone Together", 
"Who Cares?", "Puttin' on the Ritz", "How 
Long Has This Been Going On?" and her own personal songs 
like "The Man That Got Away", and the inevitable "Over the 
Rainbow".   Miss Garland is not only one of the great singers 
of our time but she is one of the superb showmen. At the start of 
her program there were evidences of pique. She had held to the letter 
of her contract and didn't come onto the stage until well after 4 
p&m&, the appointed hour, although the Music at Newport people had 
tried to get the program underway at 3. Then there was a bad delay 
in getting Mort Lindsey's 30-piece orchestra wedged into its chairs.

Along about 4:30, just when it was getting to be about time 
to turn the audience over and toast them on the other side, Judy 
came on singing, in a short-skirted blue dress with a blue and white jacket 
that flapped in the wind. Her bouffant coiffure was fortunately 
combed on the left which happened to be the direction from which a brisk 
breeze was blowing.   In her first song she waved away one 
encroaching photographer who dared approach the throne unbidden and thereafter 
the boys with the cameras had to unsheathe their 300 mm& lenses 
and shoot at extreme range.   There also came a brief contretemps 
with the sound mixers who made the mistake of being overheard during 
a quiet moment near the conclusion of "Do It Again", and 
she made the tart observation that "I never saw so much moving about 
in an audience".   But it didn't take Judy Garland, showman, 
long to realize that this sort of thing was par for the course at 
Newport and that you have to learn to live with it. Before her chore 
was finished she was rescuing wind-blown sheets of music, trundling 
microphones about the stage, helping to move the piano and otherwise joining 
in the informal atmosphere.   And time after time she really 
belted out her songs. Sometimes they struck me as horribly over-arranged- 
which was the way I felt about her "Come Rain or Come 
Shine"- and sometimes they were just plain magnificent, like her 
shatteringly beautiful "Beautiful Weather".   To her partisan 
audience, such picayune haggling would have seemed nothing more than 
a critic striving to hold his franchise; they just sat back on their 
haunches and cried for more, as though they could never get enough.

They were rewarded with splendid, exciting, singing. Her "Rockabye 
Your Baby" was as good as it can be done, and her really 
personal songs, like "The Man That Got Away" were deeply moving.

The audience wouldn't let her leave until it had heard 
"Over The Rainbow"- although the fellow that kept crying for 
"Get Happy" had to go home unhappy, about that item anyway. She 
was generous with her encores and the audience was equally so with 
its cheers and applause and flowers.   All went home happy except 
the Newport police, who feared that the throng departing at 6:35 
might meet head-on the night crowd drawing nigh, and those deprived of 
their happy hour at the cocktail bar.

In Newport last night there were flashes of distant lightning 
in the northern skies. This was perhaps symbolic of the jazz of the 
evening- flashes in the distance, but no storm.   Several times 
it came near breaking, and there were in fact some lovely peals of thunder 
from Jerry Mulligan's big band, which is about as fine an aggregation 
as has come along in the jazz business since John Hammond 
found Count Basie working in a Kansas City trap.   Mulligan's 
band has been infected with his solid sense of swing, and what it 
does seems far more meaningful than most of the noise generated by the 
big concert aggregations.   But what is equally impressive is 
the delicacy and wonderful lyric quality of both the band and Mulligan's 
baritone sax in a fragile ballad like Bob Brookmeyer's arrangement 
of "Django's Castle".   For subtle swinging rhythms, 
I could admire intensely Mulligan's version of "Weep", and 
the fireworks went on display in "18 Carrots for Robert", a sax 
tribute to Johnny Hodges.   There was considerable contrast 
between this Mulligan performance and that of Art Blakey and The 
Jazz Messengers, who are able to generate a tremendous sound for such 
a small group. Unfortunately, Blakey doesn't choose to work much 
of the time in this vein. He prefers to have his soloist performing 
and thus we get only brief glimpses of what his ensemble work is like.

What we did get, however, was impressive.   A few drops 
of rain just before midnight, when Sarah Vaughan was in the midst of 
her first number, scattered the more timid members of the audience briefly, 
but at this hour and with Sarah on the stand, most of the listeners 
didn't care whether they got wet.   Miss Vaughan was back 
in top form, somehow mellowed and improved with the passage of time- 
like a fine wine. After the spate of female vocalists we have been 
having, all of whom took Sarah as a point of departure and then tried 
to see what they could do that might make her seem old hat, it seemed 
that all that has happened is to make the real thing seem better than 
ever. 

#JAZZ THREE OPEN PROGRAM#

The evening program was opened 
by the Jazz Three, a Newport group consisting of Steve Budieshein 
on bass, Jack Warner, drums, and Don Cook, piano. This was a 
continuation of a good idea which was first tried out Saturday night 
when the Eddie Stack group, also local talent, went on first. 
Putting on local musicians at this place in the program serves a triple 
purpose: it saves the top flight jazz men from being wasted in 
this unenviable spot, when the audience is cold, restless, and in flux; 
it prevents late-comers from missing some of the people they have 
come a long way to hear, and it gives the resident musicians a chance 
to perform before the famous Newport audience.   The Jazz Three 
displayed their sound musicianship, not only in their own chosen set, 
but as the emergency accompanists for Al Minns + Leon James, the 
superb jazz dancers who have now been Newport performers for three 
successive years, gradually moving up from a morning seminar on the evolution 
of the blues to a spot on the evening program. 

#JULIE WILSON 
SINGS#

Julie Wilson, a vigorous vocalist without many wild twists, 
sang a set, a large part of which consisted of such seldom heard old 
oldies as "Hard-Hearted Hannah, the Vamp of Savannah", and 
the delightful "Sunday". She frosted the cake with the always reliable 
"Bill Bailey".   From this taste of the 1920s, we 
leaped way out to Stan Getz's private brand of progressive jazz, 
which did lovely, subtle things for "Baubles, Bangles and Beads", 
and a couple of ballards.   Getz is a difficult musician to categorize. 
He plays his sax principally for beauty of tone, rather than 
for scintillating flights of meaningless improvisations, and he has 
a quiet way of getting back and restating the melody after the improvising 
is over. In this he is sticking with tradition, however far removed 
from it he may seem to be. 

#SHEARING TAKES OVER#

George Shearing 
took over with his well disciplined group, a sextet consisting of 
vibes, guitar, bass, drums, Shearing's piano and a bongo drummer. 
He met with enthusiastic audience approval, especially when he swung 
from jazz to Latin American things like the Mambo. Shearing, himself, 
seemed to me to be playing better piano than in his recent Newport 
appearances.   A very casual, pleasant program- one of those 
easy-going things that make Newport's afternoon programs such a 
relaxing delight- was held again under sunny skies, hot sun, and a fresh 
breeze for an audience of at least a couple of thousands who came 
to Newport to hear music rather than go to the beach.   Divided 
almost equally into two parts, it consisted of "The Evolution of 
the Blues", narrated by Jon Hendricks, who had presented it last 
year at the Monterey, Calif&, Jazz Festival, and an hour-long session 
of Maynard Ferguson and his orchestra, a blasting big band.

Hendricks' story was designed for children and he had a small 
audience of small children right on stage with him. Tracing the blues 
from its African roots among the slaves who were brought to this country 
and the West Indies, he stressed the close relationship between 
the early jazz forms and the music of the Negro churches. 

#SURPRISE 
ADDITION#

To help him on this religious aspect of primitive jazz 
he had "Big" Miller, as a preacher-singer and Hannah Dean, Gospel-singer, 
while Oscar Brown Jr&, an extremely talented young 
man, did a slave auctioneer's call, a field-hands' work song, and 
a beautifully sung Negro lullaby, "Brown Baby", which was one of 
the truly moving moments of the festival.   One of those delightful 
surprise additions, which so frequently occur in jazz programs, 
was an excellent stint at the drums by the great Joe Jones, drumming 
to "Old Man River", which seems to have been elected the favorite 
solo for the boys on the batterie at this year's concerts.

Demonstrating the primitive African rhythmic backgrounds of the Blues 
was Michael Babatunde Olatunji, who plays such native drums as 
the konga and even does a resounding job slapping his own chest. He 
has been on previous Newport programs and was one of the sensations of 
last year's afternoon concerts.   Hendricks had Billy Mitchell, 
tenor 
sax; Pony Poindexter, alto sax; Jimmy Witherspoon, 
blues singer (and a good one), and the Ike Isaacs Trio, which has done 
such wonderful work for two afternoons now, helping him with the musical 
examples.   It all went very well.

PIANISTS who are serious about their work are likely to know 
the interesting material contained in Schubert's Sonatas. Music 
lovers who are not familiar with this literature may hear an excellent 
example, played for ~RCA by Emil Gilels. He has chosen Sonata 
Op& 53 in ~D. The playing takes both sides of the disc. Perhaps 
one of the reasons these Sonatas are not programmed more often 
is their great length. Rhythmic interest, melodic beauty and the expansiveness 
of the writing are all qualities which hold one's attention 
with the Gilels playing. His technique is ample and his musical ideas 
are projected beautifully.   The male chorus of the Robert 
Shaw Chorale sings Sea Shanties in fine style. The group is superbly 
trained. What a discussion can ensue when the title of this type 
of song is in question. Do you say chantey, as if the word were derived 
from the French word chanter, to sing, or do you say shanty and think 
of a roughly built cabin, which derives its name from the French-Canadian 
use of the word chantier, with one of its meanings given as 
a boat-yard? I say chantey. Either way, the Robert Shaw chorus 
sings them in fine style with every colorful word and its musical frame 
spelled out in terms of agreeable listening. If your favorite song 
is not here it must be an unfamiliar one.   The London label offers 
an operatic recital by Ettore Bastianini, a baritone whose fame 
is international.

MURRAY LOUIS and his dance company appeared at the Henry 
Street Playhouse on Friday and Saturday evenings and Sunday afternoons 
in the premiere of his latest work, "Signal", and the repetition 
of an earlier one, "Journal".   "Signal" is choreographed 
for three male dancers to an electronic score by Alwin Nikolais. 
Its abstract decor is by John Hultberg. Program note reads 
as follows:   "Take hands **h this urgent visage beckons us".

Here, as in "Journal", Mr& Louis has given himself 
the lion's share of the dancing, and there is no doubt that he is 
capable of conceiving and executing a wide variety of difficult and arresting 
physical movements. Indeed, both "Journal" and "Signal" 
qualify as instructive catalogues of modern-dance calisthenics.

But chains of movements are not necessarily communicative, and 
it is in the realm of communication that the works prove disappointing. 
One frequently has the feeling that the order of their movement combinations 
could be transposed without notable loss of effect, there is 
too little suggestion of organic relationship and development.

It may be, of course, that Mr& Louis is consciously trying to create 
works that anticipate an age of total automation. But it may be, 
also, that he is merely more mindful of athletics than of esthetics 
at the present time. One thing is certain, however, and that is that 
he is far more slavish to the detailed accents, phrasings and contours 
of the music he deals with than a confident dance creator need be. @ 
#'AN AMERICAN JOURNEY'#

A brisk, satirical spoof of contemporary 
American mores entitled "An American Journey" was given its 
first New York performance at Hunter College Playhouse last night 
by the Helen Tamiris-Daniel Nagrin Dance Company. Choreographed 
by Mr& Nagrin, the work filled the second half of a program that 
also offered the first New York showing of Miss Tamiris' "Once 
Upon a Time **h" as well as her "Women's Song" and 
Mr& Nagrin's "Indeterminate Figure".   Eugene Lester 
assembled a witty and explicit score for "An American Journey", 
and Malcolm McCormick gave it sprightly imaginative costumes.

Mr& Nagrin has described four "places", each with its scenery 
and people, added two "diversions", and concluded with "A 
Toccata for the Young", a refreshingly underplayed interpretation 
of rock'n'roll dancing.   The "places" could be anywhere, 
the idiosyncrasies 
and foibles observed there could be anybody's, and 
the laugh is on us all. But we need not mind too much, because Mr& 
Nagrin has expressed it through movement that is diverting and clever 
almost all the way.   Miss Tamiris' "Once Upon a Time 
**h" is a problem piece about a man and a woman and the three "figures" 
that bother them somehow.   Unfortunately, the man and 
woman were not made to appear very interesting at the outset and the 
menacing figures failed to make them any more so. Nor did the dancing 
involved really seize the attention at any time. The music here, Russell 
Smith's "Tetrameron", sounded good.   All the performances 
of the evening were smooth and assured, and the sizable company, 
with Mr& Nagrin and Marion Scott as its leading dancers, seemed 
to be fine shape.

THE Symphony of the Air, greatly assisted by Van Cliburn, 
last night got its seven-concert Beethoven cycle at Carnegie Hall 
off to a good start. At the same time the orchestra announced that 
next season it would be giving twenty-five programs at Carnegie, and 
that it would be taking these concerts to the suburbs, repeating each 
of them in five different communities.   This news, announced 
by Jerome Toobin, the orchestra's administrative director, brought 
applause from the 2,800 persons who filled the hall. They showed they 
were glad that Carnegie would have a major orchestra playing there 
so often next season to take up the slack with the departure to Lincoln 
Center of the New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra 
and the Boston Symphony.   This season the orchestra has already 
taken a step toward the suburbs in that it is giving six subscription 
concerts for the Orchestral Society of Westchester in the County 
Center in White Plains. The details of the suburban concerts 
next season, and the centers in which they will be given, will be announced 
later, Mr& Toobin said. #@#

The concertos that Van 
Cliburn has been associated with in New York since his triumphant return 
from Russia in 1958 have been the Tchaikovsky, the Rachmaninoff 
Third, and the Prokofieff Third. It was pleasant last night, therefore, 
to hear him do something else: a concerto he has recently recorded, 
"The Emperor".   The young Texas pianist can make 
great chords ring out as well as anyone, so last night the massive sonorities 
of this challenging concerto were no hazard to him. But they 
were not what distinguished his performance. The elements that did 
were the introspective slow movement, the beautiful transition to the 
third movement, and the passages of filigree that laced through the bigger 
moments of the opening movement and the final Rondo.   Mr& 
Cliburn gave the slow movement some of the quality of a Chopin Nocturne. 
Alfred Wallenstein, the conductor, sensitive accompanist that 
he is, picked up the idea and led the orchestra here with a sense of 
broodinf, poetic mystery. The collaboration was remarkable, as it was 
in both the other movements, too. #@#

Mr& Wallenstein, who 
will lead all of the concerts in the cycle, also conducted the "Leonore" 
Overture No& 3 and the Fourth Symphony. The orchestra 
was obviously on its mettle and it played most responsively. And although 
there was plenty of vigor in the performance, the ensemble was at 
its best when the playing was soft and lyrical, yet full of the suppressed 
tension that is one of the hallmarks of Beethoven. Igor Oistrakh 
will be the next soloist on Feb& 4.

THERE are times when one suspects that the songs that are 
dropped from musical shows before they reach Broadway may really be 
better than many of those that are left in. Today, in the era of the 
integrated musical when an individual song must contribute to the over-all 
development of the show, it is understandable that a song, no matter 
how excellent it may be on its own terms, is cut out because it does 
not perform the function required of it.   In the more casually 
constructed musicals of the Nineteen Twenties and Nineteen Thirties 
there would seem to have been less reason for eliminating a song 
of merit. Yet there is the classic case of the Gershwins' "The 
Man I Love". Deemed too static when it was first heard in "Lady 
Be Good" in Philadelphia in 1924, it was dropped from the score. 
It was heard again in Philadelphia in 1927 in the first version 
of "Strike Up the Band" and again abandoned shortly before the 
entire show was given up. It finally reached Broadway in the second 
and successful version of "Strike Up the Band" in 1929. (Still 
another song in "Strike Up the Band"- "I've Got a Crush 
on You"- was retrieved from a 1928 failure, "Treasure Girl".) 

#SECOND CHANCE#

Like the Gershwins, Richard Rodgers and 
Lorenz Hart were loath to let a good song get away from them. If one 
of Mr& Rodgers' melodies seemed to deserve a better fate than 
interment in Boston or the obscurity of a Broadway failure, Mr& Hart 
was likely to deck it out with new lyrics to give it a second chance 
in another show.   Several of these double entries have been 
collected by Ben Bagley and Michael McWhinney, along with Rodgers 
and Hart songs that disappeared permanently en route to New York 
and others that reached Broadway but have not become part of the constantly 
heard Rodgers and Hart repertory, in a delightfully refreshing 
album, {Rodgers and Hart Revisited} (Spruce Records, 505 Fifth 
Avenue, New York).   Among the particular gems in this collection 
is the impudent opening song of "The Garrick Gaieties", 
an impressive forecast of the wit and melody that were to come from 
Rodgers and Hart in the years that followed; Dorothy Loudon's 
raucous listing of the attractions "At the Roxy Music Hall" from 
"I Married an Angel"; and the incisive style with which Charlotte 
Rae delivers the top-drawer Hart lyrics of "I Blush", 
a song that was cut from "A Connecticut Yankee".   Altogether 
fifteen virtually unknown Rodgers and Hart songs are sung by 
a quintet of able vocalists. Norman Paris has provided them with extremely 
effective orchestral accompanimen   Turning to the current 
musical season on Broadway, the most widely acclaimed of the new arrivals, 
{How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying}, 
has been transferred to an original cast album (R& C& A& Victor 
~LOC 1066; stereo ~LSO 1066) that has some entertaining 
moments, although it is scarcely as inventive as the praise elicited 
by the show might lead one to expect. Robert Morse, singing with comically 
plaintive earnestness, carries most of the burden and is responsible 
for the high spots in Frank Loesser's score.   Rudy 
Vallee, who shares star billing with Mr& Morse, makes only two 
appearances. He shares with Mr& Morse a parody of the college anthems 
he once sang while his second song is whisked away from him by Virginia 
Martin, a girl with a remarkably expressive yip in her voice. 
In general, Mr& Loesser has done a more consistent job as lyricist 
than he has as composer.   Like Mr& Loesser, Jerry Herman 
is both composer and lyriist for {Milk and Honey} (R& 
C& 
A& Victor ~LOC 1065; stereo ~LSO 1065), but in this 
case it is the music that stands above the lyrics. For this story of 
an American couple who meet and fall in love in Israel, Mr& Herman 
has written songs that are warmly melodious and dance music that sparkles. 

#RESOURCEFUL VOICES#

There are the full-bodied, resourceful 
voices of Robert Weede, Mimi Benzell and Tommy Rall to make the 
most of Mr& Herman's lilting melodies and, for an occasional 
change of pace, the bright humor of Molly Picon. Mr& Herman has 
managed to mix musical ideas drawn from Israel and the standard American 
ballad style in a manner that stresses the basic tunefulness of both 
idioms.   Not content to create only the music and lyrics, Noe^l 
Coward also wrote the book and directed {Sail Away} (Capitol 
~WAO 1643; stereo ~SWAO 1643), a saga of life on a 
cruise ship that is not apt to be included among Mr& Coward's more 
memorable works. The melodies flow along pleasantly, as Mr& Coward's 
songs usually do, but his lyrics have a tired, cut-to-a-familiar-pattern 
quality. Elaine Stritch, who sings with a persuasively 
warm huskiness, belts some life into most of her songs, but the other 
members of the cast sound as lukewarm as Mr& Coward's songs.

WITH three fine Russian films in recent months on World 
War /2,- "The House I Live In", "The Cranes Are Flying" 
and "Ballad of a Soldier"- we had every right to expect 
a real Soviet block-buster in "The Day the War Ended". It 
simply isn't, not by a long shot. The Artkino presentation, with English 
titles, opened on Saturday at the Cameo Theatre. #@# 

Make no mistake, this Gorky Studio drama is a respectable import- 
aptly grave, carefully 
written, performed and directed. In describing the initial Allied 
occupation of a middle-sized German city, the picture has color, pictorial 
pull and genuinely moving moments. Told strictly from the viewpoint 
of the Russian conquerors, the film compassionately peers over 
the shoulders of a smitten Soviet couple, at both sides of the conflict's 
aftermath.   Unfortunately, the whole picture hinges on this 
romance, at the expense of everything else. Tenderly and rather tediously, 
the camera rivets on the abrupt, deep love of a pretty nurse 
and a uniformed teacher, complicated by nothing more than a friend they 
don't want to hurt. It's the old story, war or no war, and more 
than one viewer may recall Hollywood's "Titanic", several seasons 
back, when the paramount concern was for the marital discord of 
a society dilettante.   Not that the picture is superficial. Under 
Yakov Segal's direction, it begins stirringly, as crouching Soviet 
and Nazi troops silently scan each other, waiting for the first 
surrender gesture. One high-up camera shot is magnificent, as the Germans 
straggle from a cathedral, dotting a huge, cobblestone square, 
and drop their weapons. 

#RING OF BRIGHT WATER, BY GAVIN MAXWELL. 211 PAGES. DUTTON. $5.# 

Only 
once in a very long while comes a book that gives the reader a magic 
sense of sharing a rare experience. "Ring of Bright Water" by 
Gavin Maxwell is just that- a haunting, warmly personal chronicle 
of a man, an otter, and a remote cottage in the Scottish West Highlands.

"He has married me with **h a ring of bright 
water", 
begins the Kathleen Raine poem from which Maxwell takes his title, 
and it is this mystic bond between the human and natural world that the 
author conveys. The place is Camusfearna, the site of a long-vanished 
sea-village opposite the isle of Skye. It is a land of long fjords, 
few people, a single-lane road miles away- and of wild stags, Greylag 
geese, wild swans, dolphins and porpoises playing in the waters. 
How Maxwell recounts his first coming to Camusfearna, his furnishing 
the empty house with beach-drift, the subtle changes in season over 
ten years, is a moving experience. Just the evocations of time and 
place, of passionate encounter between man and a natural world which today 
seems almost lost, would be enough.   But it isn't. There 
is Mijbil, an otter who travelled with Maxwell- and gave Maxwell's 
name to a new species- from the Tigris marshes to his London 
flat. It may sound extravagant to say that there has never been a more 
engaging animal in all literature. This is not only a compliment to 
Mijbil, of whom there are a fine series of photographs and drawings 
in the book, but to the author who has catalogued the saga of a frightened 
otter cub's journey by plane from Iraq to London, then by train 
(where he lay curled in the wash basin playing with the water tap) 
to Camusfearna, with affectionate detail.   Mij, as his owner 
was soon to learn, had strange, inexplicable habits. He liked to nip 
ear lobes of unsuspecting visitors with his needle-sharp teeth. He preferred 
sleeping in bed with his head on a pillow. Systematically he 
would open and ransack drawers. Given a small ball or marbles, he would 
invent games and play by himself for hours. With curiosity and elan, 
he explored every inch of glen, beach and burn, once stranding himself 
for hours on a ledge high up a sheer seventy-foot cliff and waiting 
with calm faith to be rescued by Maxwell, who nearly lost his life 
in doing so.   A year and a day of this idyll is described for the 
reader, one in which not only discovery of a new world of personality 
is charted, but self-discovery as well. In the solitude of Camusfearna 
there had been no loneliness. "To be quite alone where there 
are no other human beings is sharply exhilarating; it is as though some 
pressure had suddenly been lifted, allowing an intense awareness **h 
a sharpening of the senses".   Now, with the increasing interdependence 
between himself and Mij came a knowledge of an obscure need, 
that of being trusted implicitly by some creature. Two other people 
in time shared Mijbil's love: "**h it remained around us three 
that his orb revolved when he was not away in his own imponderable 
world of wave and water **h; we were his Trinity, and he behaved 
towards us **h with a mixture of trust and abuse, passion and irritation. 
In turn each of us in our own way depended, as gods do, upon his 
worship".

Yet the idyll ended. The brief details of Mijbil's 
death lend depth to the story, give it an edge of ironic tragedy. 
Man, to whom Mij gave endless affection and fealty, was responsible 
in the form of a road worker with a pickaxe who somehow becomes an abstract 
symbol of the savage in man. But then, through a strange coincidence, 
Maxwell manages to acquire Idal, a female otter, and the fascinating 
story starts once more.   One is not sure who emerges as 
the main personality of this book- Mijbil, with his rollicking ways, 
or Maxwell himself, poet, portrait painter, writer, journalist, traveller 
and zoologist, sensitive but never sentimental recorder of an 
unusual way of life, in a language at once lyrical and forceful, vivid 
and unabashed. This reviewer read the book when it was first brought 
out in England with a sense of discovery and excitement. Now Gavin 
Maxwell's ring of bright water has widened to enchant the world. 

_NEW YORK_- The performances of the Comedie Francaise are the 
most important recent events in the New York theater.   They 
serve to contradict a popular notion that the Comedie merely repeats, 
as accurately as possible, the techniques of acting the classics that 
prevailed in the 17th century. On the contrary, the old plays are continually 
being reinterpreted, and each new production of a classic has 
only a brief history at the Comedie.   Of course, the well-received 
revivals last longer than the others, and that further reminds 
us that the Comedie is not insensitive to criticism. The directors of 
the Comedie do not respond to adverse notices in as docile and subservient 
a manner as the Broadway producers who, in two instances this 
season, closed their plays after one performance. But they are aware 
of the world outside, they court public approval, they delight in full 
houses, and they occasionally dare to experiment in interpreting a dramatic 
classic.   In France, novel approaches to the classic French 
plays are frequently attempted. The government pays a subsidy 
for revival of the classics, and this policy attracts experimenters who 
sometimes put Moliere's characters in modern dress and often achieve 
interesting results.   So far as I know, the Comedie has never 
put Moliere's people in the costumes of the 20th century, but 
they do reinterpret plays and characters. Last season, the Comedie's 
two principal experiments came to grief, and, in consequence, we can 
expect fairly soon to see still newer productions of Racine's "Phedre" 
and Moliere's "School for Wives".   The new 
"Phedre" was done in 17th century setting, instead of ancient Greek; 
perhaps that is the Comedie's equivalent for thrusting this 
play's characters into our own time. The speaking of the lines seemed 
excessively slow and stately, possibly in an effort to capture the 
spirit of 17th century elegance. A few literary men defended what they 
took to be an emphasis on the poetry at the expense of the drama, but 
the response was mainly hostile and quite violent.   The new "School 
for Wives" was interpreted according to a principle that 
is becoming increasingly common in the playing of classic comedy- the 
idea of turning some obviously ludicrous figure into a tragic character.

Among the Moliere specialists of some years ago, Louis 
Jouvet tried to humanize some of the clowns, while Fernand Ledoux, 
often performing at the Comedie, made them more gross than Moliere may 
have intended.   Apparently, Jouvet and Ledoux attempted just 
these dissimilar approaches in the role of Arnolphe in "The School 
for Wives". I say "apparently" although I saw Jouvet as 
Arnolphe when he visited this country shortly before his death; by 
that time, he seemed to have dropped the tragic playing of the last moments 
of the comedy.   Arnolphe, it will be recalled, is a man 
of mature years who tries to preserve the innocence of his youthful wife-to-be. 
The part can lend itself to serious treatment; one influential 
French critic remarked: "Pity for Arnolphe comes with age".

Accordingly, at the Comedie last year, Jean Meyer played 
a sympathetic Arnolphe and drew criticism for turning the comedy into 
a tragedy. But the stuff of tragedy was not truly present and the 
play became only comedy acted rather slowly.   Wisely, the Comedie 
has brought Moliere's "Tartuffe" on its tour and has left 
"The School for Wives" at home. Tartuffe is the religious hypocrite 
who courts his benefactor's wife. Jouvet played him as a sincere 
zealot, and Ledoux, at the Comedie, made him a gross buffoon, or 
so the historians tell us.   Louis Seigner, who formerly played 
the deluded benefactor opposite Ledoux, is the Tartuffe of the present 
production, which he himself directed. His Tartuffe observes the 
golden mean. His red face, his coarse gestures, and his lustful stares 
bespeak his sensuality. But his heavenward glances and his pious 
speeches are not merely perfunctory; of course, they do not reflect 
sincerity, but they exhibit a concern to make a good job out of his 
pious impersonation.   Occasionally, Seigner draws some justly 
deserved laughs by his quick shifts from one personality to another. The 
whole role, by the way, is a considerable transformation for anyone 
who has seen Seigner in his other parts. His normal specialty is playing 
the good-natured old man, frequently stupid or deluded but never 
mean or sly. Here, he is, quite persuasively, the very embodiment of 
meanness and slyness.   Seigner is the dean of the company, the 
oldest actor in point of continuous service. In that function, he helps 
to rebut another legend about the Comedie. We are often told that 
the Comedie has, unfortunately, life-contracts with old actors who 
are both mediocre and lazy, drawing their pay without much acting but 
probably doing real service to the Comedie by staying off the stage. 
Seigner, however, is a fine actor and probably the busiest man in the 
company; among his other parts are the leads in "The Bourgeois 
Gentleman" and "The Imaginary Invalid".   In Moliere's 
farce, "The Tricks of Scapin", Robert Hirsch undertakes 
another of the great roles. Here some innovation is attempted. 
To begin with, Scapin is a trickster in the old tradition of the clever 
servant who plots the strategy of courtship for his master. Hirsch's 
Scapin is healthy, cheerful, energetic, revelling in his physical 
agility and his obvious superiority to the young gentlemen whom he 
serves.   Hirsch says that he has given the role certain qualities 
he has observed in the city toughs of the real world. And surely 
his Scapin has a fresh directness, a no-nonsense quality that seems to 
make him his own master and nobody's servant.

DJANGO REINHARDT, the ill-fated gypsy, was a true artist, 
one who demonstrated conclusively the power of art to renew itself and 
flow into many channels.   There is hardly a jazz guitarist in 
the business today who doesn't owe something to Django. And Django 
owed much to Louis Armstrong. He told once of how he switched his 
style of playing to jazz after listening to two old Armstrong records 
he bought in the Flea Market in Paris. It was the first jazz he 
had heard.   Django, who was born Jean Baptiste Reinhardt in 
Belgium and who died in 1953 in France, was an extraordinary man. Most 
of the fingers on his left hand were burned off when he fell asleep 
with a cigarette. And this was before he began to play his startlingly 
beautiful jazz.   You can catch up with him- if you haven't 
already- on ~RCA-Victor's album. "Djangology", made 
up of tracks he recorded with Stephane Grappelly and the Quintet of 
the Hot Club of France. This is a choice item and Grappely deserves 
mention too, of course. He is one of the few men in history who 
plays jazz on a violin.   They play: "Minor Swing", "Honeysuckle 
Rose", "Beyond the Sea", "Bricktop", "Heavy 
Artillery", "Djangology", "After You've Gone", "Where 
Are You, My Love"? "I Saw Stars", "Lover Man", 
"Menilmontant" and "Swing 42".   All this is great 
proceedings- get the minutes.   Kid Ory, the trombonist chicken 
farmer, is also one of the solid anchor points of jazz. He dates 
back to the days before the first sailing ship pulled into New Orleans. 
His horn has blown loud and clear across the land for more years 
than he cares to remember.   Good Time Jazz has released a nice 
two-record album which he made. He is starred against Alvin Alcorn, 
trumpet; Phil Gomez, clarinet; Cedric Haywood, piano; Julian 
Davidson, guitar; Wellman Braud, bass, and Minor Hall, drums.

The set contains "High Society", "Do What Ory 
Say", "Down Home Rag", "Careless Love", Jazz Me Blues", 
"Weary Blues", "Original Dixieland One-Step", "Bourbon 
Street Parade", "Panama", "Toot, Toot, Tootsie", 
"Oh Didn't He Ramble", "Beale Street Blues", "Maryland, 
My Maryland", "1919 Rag", "Eh, La Bas", "Mood 
Indigo", and "Bugle Call Rag".   All this will serve 
to show off the Ory style in fine fashion and is a must for those 
who want to collect elements of the old-time jazz before it is too late 
to lay hands on the gems.

MISCHA ELMAN shared last night's Lewisohn Stadium concert 
with three American composers.   His portion of the program- 
and a big portion it was- consisted of half the major nineteenth-century 
concertos for the violin: to wit, the Mendelssohn and the 
Tchaikovsky. That is an evening of music-making that would faze many 
a younger man; Mr& Elman is 70 years old.   There were 
8,000 persons at the Stadium who can tell their grandchildren that they 
heard Elman. But, with all due respects and allowances, it must 
truthfully be said that what they heard was more syrupy than sweet, 
more mannered than musical. The occasion was sentimental; so was the 
playing. #@#

The American part of the evening consisted of Paul 
Creston's Dance Overture, William Schuman's "Chester" 
from "New England Triptych" and two works of Wallingford Riegger, 
Dance Rhythms, 
Op& 58, and a Romanza for Strings, Op& 
56~A.

The Creston is purely a potboiler, with Spanish, English, 
French and American dances mixed into the stew. The Riegger, 
with its Latin hesitation bounce, is just this side of the pale; 
like his sweet, attractive Romanza, it belongs to what the composer 
called his "Non-Dissonant (Mostly)" category of works. The Schuman 
"Chester" takes off from an old William Billings tune with 
rousing woodwind and brass effect. #@#

All these- potboilers 
or no- provided a welcome breath of fresh air in the form of lively, 
colorful, unstuffy works well suited for the great out-of-doors. It 
was nice to have something a little up-to-date for a change. We have 
Alfredo Antonini to thank for this healthy change of diet as well 
as the lively performances of the Stadium Symphony.

A WOMAN who undergoes artificial insemination against the 
wishes of her husband is the unlikely heroine of "A Question of Adultery", 
yesterday's new British import at the Apollo. 
Since an objective viewer might well conclude that this is not a situation 
that would often arise, the film's extensive discussion of the 
problem seems, at best, superfluous. In its present artless, low-budget 
form, the subject matter seems designed to invite censorial wrath.

With Julie London enacting the central role with husky-voiced 
sincerity, the longsuffering heroine is at least attractive. The explanation 
offered for her conduct is a misguided attempt to save her marriage 
to a neurotic husband left sterile as a result of an automobile 
accident.   Anthony Steel, as the husband, is a jealous type 
who argues against her course and sues for divorce, labeling her action 
adulterous. The actor plays his role glumly under the lurid direction 
of Don Chaffey, as do Basil Sydney as his unsympathetic father 
and Anton Diffring as an innocent bystander.   After a protracted, 
hysterical trial scene more notable for the frankness of its language 
than for dramatic credibility, the jury, to no one's surprise, 
leaves the legal question unresolved. When the husband drops the case 
and returns to his wife, both seem sorry they brought the matter up in 
the first place. So was the audience. 

_LONDON, JULY 4_- For its final change of bill in its London season, 
the Leningrad State Kirov Ballet chose tonight to give one 
of those choreographic miscellanies known as a "gala program" at the 
Royal Opera House, Covent Garden. No doubt the underlying idea 
was to show that for all the elegance and artistry that have distinguished 
its presentations thus far, it too could give a circus if it pleased.

And please it did, in every sense of the word, for it had 
the audience shouting much of the time in a manner far from typical 
of London audiences. At the end of the program, indeed, there was a 
demonstration that lasted for forty-five minutes, and nothing could stop 
it. Alexandre Livshitz repeated a fantastic 
technical bit from the closing number, "Taras Bulba", but even 
then there was a substantial number of diehards who seemed determined 
not to go home at all. Only a plea from the house manager, John Collins, 
finally broke up the party. #@#

But for all the manifest 
intention to "show off", this was a circus with a difference, for 
instead of descending in quality to what is known as a popular level, 
it added further to the evidence that this is a very great dancing company.

The "Taras Bulba" excerpt is a rousing version of 
Gogol's Ukrainian folk-tale choreographed by Bo Fenster to music 
of Soloviev-Sedoi. It is danced by some thirty-five men and no women, 
and it contains everything in the books- lusty comedy, gregarious 
cavorting, and tricks that only madmen or Russians would attempt 
to make the human body perform. Yuri Soloviev, Oleg Sokolov, Alexei 
Zhitkov, Lev Sokolov, Yuri Korneyev and Mr& Livshitz were the 
chief soloists, but everybody on stage was magnificent. #@#

At 
the other extreme in character was the half-hour excerpt from the Petipa-Minkus 
ballet "Bayaderka", which opened the evening. What 
a man this Petipa was! And why do we in the West know so few of 
his ballets? This scene is a "white ballet" in which a lovelorn 
hero searches for his departed love's spirit among twenty-eight extraordinarily 
beautiful "shadows" who can all dance like nothing human- 
which, of course, is altogether fitting. The ensemble enters 
in a long adagio passage that is of fantastic difficulty, as well as loveliness, 
and adagio is the general medium of the piece. #@#

Its 
ballerina, Olga Moiseyeva, performs simple miracles of beauty, and 
Ludmilla Alexeyeva, Inna Korneyeva and Gabrielle Komleva make 
up a threesome of exquisite accomplishments. Sergei Vikulov, as the 
lone male, meets the competition well with some brilliant hits, but the 
work is designed to belong to the ladies.   The middle section 
of the program was made up of short numbers, naturally enough of unequal 
merit, but all of them pretty good at that. They consisted of a new 
arrangement of "Nutcracker" excerpts danced stunningly by Irina 
Kolpakova and Mr& Sokolev, with a large ensemble; a winning 
little "Snow Maiden" variation by the adorable Galina Kekisheva; 
two of those poetic adagios in Greek veils (and superb esthetic 
acrobacy) by Alla Osipenko and Igor Chernishev in one case and Inna 
Zubkovskaya and Yuri Kornevey in the other; an amusing character 
pas de cinq called "Gossiping Women"; a stirring "Flames 
of Paris" pas de deux by Xenia Ter-Stepanova and Alexandre Pavlovsky, 
and a lovely version of Fokine's "Le Cygne" by Olga 
Moiseyeva, which had to be repeated.   Vadim Kalentiev was the 
conductor.   It was quite an evening!

A YEAR ago today, when the Democrats were fretting and frolicking 
in Los Angeles and John F& Kennedy was still only an 
able and ambitious Senator who yearned for the power and responsibility 
of the Presidency, Theodore H& White had already compiled masses 
of notes about the Presidential campaign of 1960.   As the 
pace of the quadrennial American political festival accelerated, Mr& 
White took more notes. He traveled alternately with Mr& Kennedy 
and with Richard M& Nixon.   He asked intimate questions 
and got frank answers from the members of what he calls the candidates' 
"in-groups". He assembled quantities of facts about the nature 
of American politics in general, as well as about the day-to-day course 
of the closest Presidential election in American history.

Those of us who read the papers may think we know a good deal about 
that election; how little we know of what there is to be known is 
made humiliatingly clear by Mr& White in "The Making of the President 
1960".   This is a remarkable book and an astonishingly 
interesting one. What might have been only warmed-over topical journalism 
turns out to be an eyewitness contribution to history. Mr& 
White, who is only a competent novelist, is a brilliant reporter. His 
zest for specific detail, his sensitivity to emotional atmosphere, 
his tireless industry and his crisply turned prose all contribute to the 
effectiveness of his book. 

#A LESSON IN POLITICS#

As a dramatic 
narrative "The Making of the President 1960" is continuously 
engrossing. And as an introduction to American politics it is highly 
educational.

The author begins this volume with a close-up of Mr& 
Kennedy, his family and his entourage waiting for the returns. 
He then switches back to a consideration of the seven principal Presidential 
hopefuls: five Democrats- Senator Hubert H& Humphrey, 
Senator Stuart Symington, Senator Lyndon B& Johnson, Adlai 
E& Stevenson and Mr& Kennedy- and two Republicans- Governor 
Rockefeller and Mr& Nixon.   Then, in chronological 
order, Mr& White covers the primary campaigns, the conventions and 
the Presidential campaign itself. In the process he writes at length 
about many related matters: the importance of race, religion, local 
tradition, bosses, organizations, zealous volunteers and television. 
Mr& White is bluntly frank in his personal opinions. He frequently 
cites intimate details that seem to come straight from the horse's 
mouth, from numerous insiders and from Mr& Kennedy himself; but 
never from Mr& Nixon, who looked on reporters with suspicion and 
distrust.   "Rarely in American history has there been a political 
campaign that discussed issues less or clarified them less", 
says Mr& White. Mr& Nixon, he believes, has no particular political 
philosophy and mismanaged his own campaign. Although a skillful 
politician and a courageous and honest man, Mr& Nixon, Mr& White 
believes, ignored his own top-level planners, wasted time and effort 
in the wrong regions, missed opportunities through indecision and 
damaged his chances on television.   Mr& Nixon is "a broody, 
moody man, given to long stretches of introspection; he trusts only 
himself and his wife. **h He is a man of major talent- but a man 
of solitary, uncertain impulses. **h He was above all a friend seeker, 
almost pathetic in his eagerness to be liked. He wanted to identify 
with people and have a connection with them; **h the least inspiring 
candidate since Alfred M& Landon".   Mr& Kennedy, 
Mr& White believes, "had mastered politics on so many different 
levels that no other 
American could match him". Calm, dignified, composed, 
"superbly eloquent", Mr& Kennedy always knew everything 
about everybody. He enlisted a staff of loyal experts and of many zealous 
volunteers. Every decision was made quickly on sound grounds. 
Efficiency was enforced and nothing was left to chance. Mr& Kennedy 
did not neglect to cultivate the personal friendship of reporters. 
Mr& White admires him profoundly and leaves no doubt that he is a 
Democrat himself who expects Mr& Kennedy to be a fine President. 

#PRESSURES PORTRAYED#

Throughout "The Making of a President" 
Mr& White shows wonderfully well how the pressures pile up on 
candidates, how decisions have constantly to be made, how fatigue and 
illness and nervous strain wear candidates down, how subordinates play 
key roles. And he makes many interesting comments. Here are several:

"The root question in American politics is always: 
Who's the Man to See? To understand American politics is, simply, 
to know people, to know the relative weight of names- who are 
heroes, who are straw men, who controls, who does not. But to operate 
in American politics one must go a step further- one must build a 
bridge to such names, establish a warmth, a personal connection".

"In the hard life of politics it is well known that no platform 
nor any program advanced by either major American party has any purpose 
beyond expressing emotion".   "All platforms are meaningless: 
the program of either party is what lies in the vision and conscience 
of the candidate the party chooses to lead it".

NOSTALGIA WEEK at Lewisohn Stadium, which had begun with 
the appearance of the 70-year-old Mischa Elman on Tuesday night, 
continued last night as Lily Pons led the list of celebrities in an 
evening of French operatic excerpts.   Miss Pons is certainly 
not 
70-no singer ever is- and yet the rewards of the evening again 
lay more in paying tribute to a great figure of times gone by than in 
present accomplishments. The better part of gallantry might be, perhaps, 
to honor her perennial good looks and her gorgeous rainbow-hued gown, 
and to chide the orchestra for not playing in the same keys in which 
she had chosen to sing.   No orchestra, however, could be expected 
to follow a singer through quite as many adventures with pitch as 
Miss Pons encountered last night. In all fairness, there were flashes 
of the great stylist of yesteryear, flashes even of the old consummate 
vocalism. #@#

One such moment came in the breathtaking way 
Miss Pons sang the cadenza to Meyerbeer's "Shadow Song". 
The years suddenly fell away at this point. On the whole, however, one 
must wonder at just what it is that forces a beloved artist to besmirch 
her own reputation as time marches inexorably on.   Sharing 
the program was the young French-Canadian tenor Richard Verreau, 
making his stadium debut on this occasion. Mr& Verreau began shakily, 
with a voice that tended toward an unpleasant whiteness when pushed 
beyond middle volume. Later on this problem vanished, and the "Flower 
Song" from Bizet's "Carmen" was beautifully and intelligently 
projected.

Radio is easily outdistancing television in its strides to reach 
the minority listener. Lower costs and a larger number of stations 
are the key factors making such specialization possible.   The 
mushrooming of ~FM outlets, offering concerts (both jazz and classical), 
lectures, and other special events, is a phenomenon which has had 
a fair amount of publicity.   Not so well known is the growth 
of broadcasting operations aimed wholly or partly at Negro listeners- 
an audience which, in the United States, comprises some 19,000,000 
people with $20,000,000,000 to spend each year.   Of course, 
the nonwhite listener does his share of television watching. He even 
buys a lot of the products he sees advertised- despite the fact that 
the copy makes no special bid for his favor and sponsors rarely use any 
but white models in commercials.   But the growing number of 
Negro-appeal radio stations, plus evidence of strong listener support 
of their advertisers, give time salesmen an impressive argument as they 
approach new prospects. It is estimated that more than 600 stations 
(of a total of 3,400) do a significant amount of programing for the 
Negro. At least 60 stations devote all of their time to reaching this 
audience in about half of the 50 states.   These and other figures 
and comments have been reported in a special supplement of Sponsor 
magazine, a trade publication for radio and ~TV advertisers. For 
10 years Sponsor has issued an annual survey of the size and characteristics 
of the Negro market and of successful techniques for reaching 
this market through radio.   In the past 10 years, Sponsor 
observes, these trends have become apparent: _@_ Negro population 
in the U&S& has increased 25 per cent while the white population 
was growing by 18 per cent. "The forgotten 15 million"- as 
Sponsor tagged the Negro market in its first survey- has become 
a better-remembered 19 million. _@_ Advertisers are changing their 
attitudes, both as to the significance of this market and the ways 
of speaking to it. _@_ Stations programing to Negro listeners 
are having to upgrade their shows in order to keep pace with rising educational, 
economic, and cultural levels. Futhermore, the station which 
wants real prestige must lead or participate in community improvement 
projects, not simply serve on the air.   In the last decade 
the number of Negro-appeal radio program hours has risen at least 15 
per cent, and the number of Negro-appeal stations has increased 30 per 
cent, according to a research man quoted by Sponsor.   A year 
ago the Negro Radio Association was formed to spur research which 
the 30-odd member stations are sure will bring in more business.

The 1960 census underscored the explosive character of the population 
growth. It also brought home proof of something a casual observer 
might have missed: that more than half of the U&S& Negroes live 
outside the southeastern states. Also, the state with the largest 
number of Negroes is New York- not in the South at all. 
In New York City, ~WLIB boasts "more community service programs 
than any other Negro station" and "one of the largest Negro 
news staffs in America". And ~WWRL's colorful mobile unit, 
cruising predominately Negro neighborhoods, is a frequent reminder 
of that station's round-the-clock dedication to nonwhite interests. 
Recently, ~WWRL won praise for its expose of particular cases 
of employment agency deceit. A half-dozen other stations in the New 
York area also bid for attention of the city's Negro population, 
up about 50 per cent in the past decade.   In all big cities outside 
the South, and even in small towns within the South, radio stations 
can be found beaming some or all of their programs at Negro listeners. 
The Keystone Broadcasting System's Negro network includes 
360 affiliated stations, whose signals reach more than half the total 
U&S& Negro population.   One question which inevitably 
crops up is whether such stations have a future in a nation where the 
Negro is moving into a fully integrated status.   Whatever the 
long-range impact of integration, the owners of Negro-appeal radio stations 
these days know they have an audience and that it is loyal. Advertisers 
have discovered the tendency of Negroes to shop for brand names 
they have heard on stations catering to their special interests. 
And many advertisers have been happy with the results of letting a Negro 
disc jockey phrase the commercial in his own words, working only 
from a fact sheet.   What sets Negro-appeal programing apart from 
other radio shows? Sponsor magazine notes the stress on popular 
Negro bands and singers; rhythm-and-blues mood music; "race" 
music, folk songs and melodies, and gospel programs. Furthermore, news 
and special presentations inform the listener about groups, projects, 
and personalities rarely mentioned on a general-appeal station. Advertising 
copy frequently takes into account matters of special Negro 
concern.   Sponsor quotes John McLendon of the McLendon-Ebony 
station group as saying that the Southern Negro is becoming conscious 
of quality and and "does not wish to be associated with radio 
which is any way degrading to his race; he tends to shy away from the 
hooting and hollering personalities that originally made Negro radio 
programs famous".   The sociological impact is perhaps most 
eloquently summed up in this quotation of J& Walter Carroll of ~KSAN, 
San Francisco:   "Negro-appeal radio is more important 
to the Negro today, because it provides a direct and powerful 
mirror in which the Negro can hear and see his ambitions, achievements 
and desires. It will continue to be important as a means of orientation 
to the Negro, seeking to become urbanized, as he tries to make 
adjustment to the urban life. Negro radio is vitally necessary during 
the process of assimilation".

Presentation of "The Life and Times of John Sloan" in 
the Delaware Art Center here suggests a current nostalgia for human 
values in art.   Staged by way of announcing the gift of a large 
and intimate Sloan collection by the artist's widow, Helen Farr 
Sloan, to the Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts, the exhibition 
presents a survey of Sloan's work. From early family portraits, 
painted before he entered the schools of the Pennsylvania Academy of 
the Fine Arts, the chronology extends to a group of paintings executed 
in his last year (1951) and still part of his estate.   Few 
artists have left a life work so eloquent of the period in which they 
lived. Few who have painted the scenes around them have done so with 
so little bitterness. The paintings, drawings, prints, and illustrations 
all reflect the manners, costumes, and mores of America in the first 
half of the present century.   Obviously Sloan's early years 
were influenced by his close friend Robert Henri. As early as 
1928, however, the Sloan style began to change. The dark pigments of 
the early work were superseded by a brighter palette. The solidity of 
brush stroke yielded to a hatching technique that finally led to virtual 
abandonment of American genres in favor of single figure studies 
and studio nudes.   The exhibition presents all phases of Sloan's 
many-sided art. In addition to the paintings are drawings, prints, 
and illustrations. Sloan created such works for newspaper supplements 
before syndication threw him out of a job and sent him to roam the 
streets of New York, thereby building for America an incomparable 
city survey from paintings of McSorley's Saloon to breezy clotheslines 
on city roofs.   One of the most appealing of the rooftop 
canvases is "Sun and Wind on the Roof", with a woman and child 
bracing themselves against flapping clothes and flying birds. Although 
there are landscapes in the show (one of the strongest is a vista of 
"Gloucester Harbor" in 1915), the human element was the compelling 
factor in Sloan's art.   Significant are such canvases as 
"Bleeker Street, Saturday Night", with its typically American 
crowd (Sloan never went abroad); the multifigure "Traveling Carnival", 
in which action is vivified by lighting; or "Carmine 
Theater, 1912", the only canvas with an ash can (and foraging dog), 
although Sloan was a member of the famous "Eight", and of the 
so-called "Ash-Can School", a term he resented.   Not all 
the paintings, however, are of cities. The exhibition touches briefly 
on his sojourn in the Southwest ("Koshare in the Dust", a vigorous 
Indian dance, and landscapes suggest the influence of western 
color on his palette).   The fact that Sloan was an extrovert, 
concerned primarily with what he saw, adds greatly to the value of his 
art as a human chronicle.   There are 151 items in the Wilmington 
show, including one painting by each member of the "Eight", 
as well as work by Sloan's friends and students. Supplementing the 
actual art are memorabilia- correspondence, diaries, books from the 
artist's library, etc&. All belong to the collection being given 
to Wilmington over a period of years by Mrs& Sloan, who has cherished 
such revelatory items ever since she first studied with Sloan at 
the Art Students League, New York, in the 1920's.   To 
enable students and the public to spot Sloan forgeries, the Delaware 
Art Center (according to its director, Bruce St& John) will maintain 
a complete file of photographs of all Sloan works, as well as 
a card index file. The entire Sloan collection will be made available 
at the center to all serious art students and historians.   The 
current exhibition, which remains on view through Oct& 29, has tapped 
14 major collections and many private sources.

Any musician playing Beethoven here, where Beethoven was born, 
is likely to examine his own interpretations with special care. In 
a sense, he is offering Bonn what its famous son (who left as a youth) 
never did- the sound of the composer's mature style.   Robert 
Riefling, who gave the only piano recital of the recently concluded 
23rd Beethoven Festival, penetrated deep into the spirit of the 
style. 
His readings were careful without being fussy, and they were authoritative 
without being presumptuous. The 32 ~C minor Variations 
with which he opened moved fluently yet logically from one to another, 
leaving the right impression of abundance under discipline. 
The ~D minor Sonata, Op& 31 No& 2, introduced by dynamically 
shaped arpeggios, was most engaging in its moments of quasi-recitative- 
single lines in which the fingers seemed to be feeling their way 
toward the idea to come. These inwardly dramatic moments showed the 
kind of "opera style" of which Beethoven was genuinely capable, 
but which did not take so kindly to the mechanics of staging. 
Two late Sonatas, Op& 110 and 111, were played with similar insight, 
the disarming simplicities of the Op& 111 Adagio made plain without 
ever becoming obvious. The two were separated from each other by 
the Six Bagatelles of Op& 126. Herr Riefling, in everything he 
gave his large Beethoven Hall audience, proved himself as an interpreter 
of unobtrusive authority.   Volker Wangenheim, who conducted 
Bonn's Sta^dtisches 
Orchester on the following evening, made 
one more conscious of the process of interpretation. Herr Wangenheim 
has only recently become the city's music director, and is a young 
man with a clear flair for the podium.   But he weighted the Eighth 
Symphony, at times, with a shuddering subjectivity which seemed 
considerably at odds with the music. He might have been hoping, to all 
appearances, that this relatively sunny symphony, in conjunction 
with the Choral Fantasy at the end of the program, could amount 
to something like the Ninth; but no amount of head-tossing could 
make it so.   The conductor's preoccupation with the business 
of starting and stopping caused occasional raggedness, as with the first 
orchestra entrance in the Fourth Piano Concerto, but when he put 
his deliberations and obsequies aside and let the music move as designed, 
it did so with plenty of spring.   The concerto's soloist, 
Hans Richter-Haaser, played with compensatory ease and economy, though 
without the consummate plasticity to which we had been treated on 
the previous evening by Herr Riefling. His was a burgomaster's 
Beethoven, solid and sensible.   Everybody returned after intermission 
for the miscellaneous sweepings of the Fantasy for Piano, Chorus, 
and Orchestra in ~C minor, made up by its composer to fill 
out one of his programs. The entrance of the Sta^dtisches Gesangverein 
(Bonn's civic chorus) was worth all the waiting, however, as the 
young Rhenish voices finally brought the music to life.   The 
last program of this festival, which during two weeks had sampled most 
compositional categories, brought the Cologne Rundfunk-Sinfonie-Orchester 
and Rundfunkchor to Bonn's gold-filled hall for a performance 
of the Missa Solemnis.

A tribe in ancient India believed the earth was a huge tea tray 
resting on the backs of three giant elephants, which in turn stood 
on the shell of a great tortoise. This theory eventually proved inexact. 
But the primitive method of explaining the unknown with what is known 
bears at least a symbolic resemblance to the methods of modern science.

It is the business of cosmologists, the scientists who 
study the nature and structure of the universe, to try to solve the great 
cosmic mysteries by using keys that have clicked open other doors. 
These keys are the working principles of physics, mathematics and astronomy, 
principles which are then extrapolated, or projected, to explain 
phenomena of which we have little or no direct knowledge.   In 
the autumn of 1959, the British Broadcasting Corporation presented 
a series of talks by four scientists competent in cosmology. Three 
of these men discussed major theories of the universe while the other 
acted as a moderator. The participants were Professor H& Bondi, 
professor of mathematics at King's College, London; Dr& W& 
B& Bonnor, reader in mathematics at Queen Elizabeth College, 
London; Dr& R& A& Lyttleton, a lecturer at St& John's 
College, Cambridge, and a reader in theoretical astronomy at the 
University of Cambridge; and Dr& G& J& Whitrow, reader 
in applied mathematics at the Imperial College of Science and Technology, 
London.   Dr& Whitrow functioned as moderator. The 
programs were so well received by the British public that the arguments 
have been published in a totally engrossing little book called, "Rival 
Theories of Cosmology".   Dr& Bonnor begins with 
a discussion of the relativistic theories of the universe, based on 
the general theory of relativity. First of all, and this has been calculated 
by observation, the universe is expanding- that is, the galaxies 
are receding from each other at immense speeds. Because of this 
Dr& Bonnor holds that the universe is becoming more thinly populated 
by stars and whatever else is there. This expansion has been going 
on for an estimated eight billion years. 

#EXPANDS AND CONTRACTS# 

Dr& Bonnor supports the idea that the universe both expands and contracts, 
that in several billion years the expansion will slow up and 
reverse itself and that the contraction will set in. Then, after many 
more billions of years, when all the galaxies are whistling toward a 
common center, this movement will slow down and reverse itself again.

Professor Bondi disagrees with the expansion-contraction theory. 
He supports the steady-state theory which holds that matter is continually 
being created in space. For this reason, he says, the density 
of the universe always remains the same even though the galaxies are 
zooming away in all directions. New galaxies are forever being formed 
to fill in the gaps left by the receding galaxies.   If this 
is true, then the universe today looks just as it did millions of years 
ago and as it will look millions of years hence, even though the universe 
is expanding. For new galaxies to be created, Professor Bondi 
declares, it would only be necessary for a single hydrogen atom to be 
created in an area the size of your living room once every few million 
years. He contends this idea doesn't conflict with experiments on 
which the principle of conservation of matter and energy is based because 
some slight error must be assumed in such experiments.   Dr& 
Lyttleton backs the theory that we live in an electric universe 
and this theory starts with the behavior of protons and electrons. Protons 
and electrons bear opposite electrical charges which make them attract 
each other, and when they are joined they make up an atom of hydrogen- 
the basic building block of matter. The charges of the electron 
and proton are believed to be exactly equal and opposite, but Dr& 
Lyttleton is not so sure. Suppose, says Dr& Lyttleton, the proton 
has a slightly greater charge than the electron (so slight it is 
presently immeasurable). This would give the hydrogen atom a slight 
charge-excess.

Now if one hydrogen atom were placed at the surface 
of a large sphere of hydrogen atoms, it would be subject both to the 
gravitation of the sphere and the charge-excess of all those atoms 
in the sphere. Because electrical forces (the charge-excess) are far 
more powerful than gravitation, the surface hydrogen atoms would shoot 
away from the sphere.   Dr& Lyttleton then imagines the universe 
as a large hydrogen sphere with surface atoms shooting away from 
it. This, he claims, would reasonably account for the expansion of the 
universe. 

#FLEETING GLIMPSE#

This slim book, while giving the 
reader only a fleeting glimpse of the scientific mind confronting the 
universe, has the appeal that informed conversation always has. Several 
photographs and charts of galaxies help the non-scientist keep up with 
the discussion, and the smooth language indicates the contributors 
were determined to avoid the jargon that seems to work its way into almost 
every field.   It is clear from this discussion that cosmologists 
of every persuasion look hopefully toward the day when a man-made 
satellite can be equipped with optical devices which will open up 
new vistas to science. Presently, the intense absorption of ultra-violet 
rays in the earth's atmosphere seriously hinders ground observation. 
These scientists are convinced that a telescope unclouded by the 
earth's gases will go a long way toward bolstering or destroying cosmic 
theories.   There would seem to be some small solace in 
the prospect that the missile race between nations is at the same time 
accelerating the study of the space around us, giving us a long-sought 
ladder from which to peer at alien regions.   In doing away with 
the tea tray, the elephants and the giant tortoise, science has developed 
a series of rationally defensible explanations of the cosmos. 
And although the universe may forever defy understanding, it might even 
now be finding its match in the imagination of man. 
"Roots", the new play at the brand-new Mayfair Theater on 46th 
St& 
which has been made over from a night club, is about the intellectual 
and spiritual awakening of an English farm girl. Highly successful 
in England before its transfer to New York, most of "Roots" is 
as relentlessly dour as the trappings of the small new theater are 
gaudy.   Only in its final scene, where Beatie Bryant (Mary 
Doyle) shakes off the disappointment of being jilted by her intellectual 
lover and proclaims her emancipation do we get much which makes worthwhile 
the series of boorish rustic happenings we have had to watch 
for most of the first two and one-half acts.   The burden of Mr& 
Wesker's message is that people living close to the soil (at least 
in England) are not the happy, fine, strong, natural, earthy people 
city-bred intellectuals imagine. Rather they are genuine clods, proud 
of their cloddishness and openly antagonistic to the illuminating 
influences of aesthetics or thought. They care no more for politics, 
says Mr& Wesker, than they do for a symphony. Seeming to have roots 
in the soil, they actually have none in life. They dwell, in short, 
in the doltish twilight in which peasants and serfs of the past are 
commonly reported to have lived.   But this is a theme which does 
not take so much time to state as Mr& Wesker dedicates to it. So 
much untidiness of mind and household does not attract the interest 
of the theatergoer (unless he has been living in a gilded palace, perhaps, 
and wants a real big heap of contrast). The messy meals, the washing 
of dishes, the drying of clothes may be realism, but there is such 
a thing as redundancy.   Now for the good points. Miss Doyle 
as Beatie has a great fund of animal spirits, a strong voice and a 
warm smile. She is just home from a sojourn in London where she has 
become the sweetheart of a young fellow named Ronnie (we never do 
see him) and has been subjected to a first course in thinking and appreciating, 
including a dose of good British socialism. But while she 
is able to tell her retarded family about the new world she has seen open 
before her, Ronnie has not been able to observe her progress, and 
instead of appearing at a family party to be looked over like a new bull, 
he sends Beatie a letter of dismissal.   Beatie, getting 
no sympathy for her misfortune, soon rallies and finds that although she 
has lost a lover she has gained her freedom. Despite a too long sustained 
declamatory flight, this final speech is convincing, and we see 
why British audiences apparently were impressed by "Roots".

There were several fairly good minor portraits in the play, including 
William Hansen's impersonation of a stubborn, rather pathetic 
father, and Katherine Squire's vigorous characterization of a farm 
mother who brooked no hifalutin' nonsense from her daughter, or anyone 
else. But I am afraid Mr& Wesker's meat and potatoes dish 
isn't well seasoned enough for local audiences.

SHAKESPEARE had a word for everything, even for the rain 
that disrupted Wednesday night's "Much Ado About Nothing" opening 
the season of free theatre in Central Park.   The New 
York Shakespeare Festival, which is using the Wollman Memorial Skating 
Rink while its theatre near the Belvedere is being completed, 
began bravely. Joseph Papp, impassioned founder of the festival and 
director of "Much Ado", had a vibrant, colorful production under 
way. Using a wide stage resourcefully he mingled music and dance with 
Shakespeare's words in a spirited mixture.   The audience 
filled all the seats inside the Wollman enclosure and overflowed onto 
the lawns outside the fence. The barbed sallies of Beatrice and Benedick, 
so contemporary to a public inured to the humor of insult, raised 
chuckles. The simple-minded comedy of Dogberry and Verges, also 
familiar in a day that responds easily to jokes skimmed off the top of 
writers' heads, evoked laughter. The vivacity of the masquers' 
party at Leonato's palace, with the Spanish motif in the music and 
dancing in honor of the visiting Prince of Arragon, cast a spell of 
delight. #@#

As "Much Ado" turned serious while the insipid 
Claudio rejected Hero at the altar, a sprinkle began to fall. At 
first hardly a person in the audience moved, although some umbrellas 
were opened. But the rain came more heavily, and men and women in 
light summer clothes began to depart. The grieving Hero and her father, 
Leonato, followed by the Friar, left the stage. A voice on the 
loudspeaker system announced that if the rain let up the performance 
would resume in ten minutes.   More than half the audience departed. 
Some remained in the Wollman enclosure, fortified with raincoats 
or with newspapers to cover their heads. Others huddled under the trees 
outside the fence. Twenty minutes after the interruption, although 
it was still raining, the play was resumed at the point in the fourth 
act where it had been stopped.   Beatrice (Nan Martin) and 
Benedick (J& D& Cannon) took their places on the stage. In their 
very first speeches it was clear that Shakespeare, like a Nostradamus, 
had foreseen this moment.   Said Benedick: "Lady Beatrice, 
have you wept all this while"?   Replied Beatrice: 
"Yea, and I will weep a while longer".   The heavens refused 
to give up their weeping. The gallant company completed Act /4, 
and got through part of Act /5,. But the final scenes could not 
be played. If any among the hardy hundreds who sat in the downpour 
are in doubt about how it comes out, let them take comfort. "Much 
Ado" ends happily. #@#

The Parks Department has done an admirable 
job of preparing the Wollman Rink for Shakespeare. One could 
hardly blame Newbold Morris, the Parks Commissioner, for devoting 
so much grateful mention to the department's technicians who at short 
notice provided the stage with its rising platforms, its balcony, 
its generous wings and even its impressive trapdoors for the use of the 
villains.   Eldon Elder, who designed the stage, also created 
a gay, spacious set that blended attractively with the park background 
and Shakespeare's lighthearted mood. Mr& Papp has directed a 
performance that has verve and pace, although he has tolerated obvious 
business to garner easy laughs where elegance and consistency of style 
would be preferable.

Elisabeth Schwarzkopf sang so magnificently Saturday night at 
Hunter College that it seems a pity to have to register any complaints. 
Still a demurrer or two must be entered.   Schwarzkopf is, 
of course, Schwarzkopf. For style and assurance, for a supreme and 
regal bearing there is still no one who can touch her. If the voice 
is just a shade less glorious than it used to be, it is still a beautiful 
instrument, controlled and flexible. Put to the service of lieder 
of Schubert, Brahms, Strauss and Wolf in a dramatical and musical 
way, it made its effect with ease and precision.   But what has 
been happening recently might be described as creeping mannerism. Instead 
of her old confidence in the simplest, purest, most moving musical 
expression, Miss Schwarzkopf is letting herself be tempted by the classic 
sin of artistic pride- that subtle vanity that sometimes misleads 
a great artist into thinking that he or she can somehow better the 
music by bringing to it something extra, some personal dramatic touch 
imposed from the outside.   The symptoms Saturday night were 
unmistakable. Clever light songs were overly coy, tragic songs a little 
too melodramatic. There was an extra pause here, a gasp or a sigh 
there, here and there an extra little twist of a word or note, all in 
the interest of effect. The result was like that of a beautiful painting 
with some of the highlights touched up almost to the point of garishness.

There were stunning musical phrases too, and sometimes 
the deepest kind of musical and poetic absorption and communication. 
Miss Schwarzkopf and her excellent pianist, John Wustman, often achieved 
the highest lyrical ideals of the lieder tradition. All the more 
reason why there should have been no place for the frills; Miss 
Schwarzkopf is too great an artist to need them.

THE dance, dancers and dance enthusiasts (8,500 of them) 
had a much better time of it at Lewisohn Stadium on Saturday night 
than all had had two nights earlier, when Stadium Concerts presented 
the first of two dance programs.   On Saturday, the orchestra 
was sensibly situated down on the field, the stage floor was apparently 
in decent condition for dancing, and the order of the program improved. 
#@#

There was, additionally, a bonus for the Saturday-night 
patrons. Alvin Ailey and Carmen De Lavallade appeared in the first 
New York performance of Mr& Ailey's "Roots of the Blues", 
a work given its premiere three weeks ago at the Boston Arts Festival.

Otherwise, the program included, as on Thursday, the 
Taras-Tchaikovsky "Design for Strings", the Dollar-Britten 
"Divertimento", the Dollar-De Banfield "The Duel" and 
the pas de deux from "The Nutcracker".   Maria Tallchief 
and Erik Bruhn, who danced the "Nutcracker" pas de deux, were 
also seen in the Petipa-Minkus pas de deux from "Don Quixote", 
another brilliant showpiece that displayed their technical prowess handsomely.

Among the other solo ballet dancers of the evening, 
Elisabeth Carroll and Ivan Allen were particularly impressive in 
their roles in "The Duel", a work that depends so much upon the 
precision and incisiveness of the two principal combatants.   Mr& 
Ailey's "Roots of the Blues", an earthy and very human modern 
dance work, provided strong contrast to the ballet selections of 
the evening. #@#

As Brother John Sellers sang five "blues" 
to the guitar and drum accompaniments of Bruce Langhorne and Shep 
Shepard, Mr& Ailey and Miss De Lavallade went through volatile 
dances that were by turns insinuating, threatening, contemptuous and 
ecstatic.   Their props were two stepladders, a chair and a palm 
fan. He wore the clothes of a laborer, and she was wondrously seductive 
in a yellow and orange dress.   The cat-like sinuousness 
and agility of both dancers were exploited in leaps, lifts, crawls and 
slides that were almost invariably compelling in a work of strong, sometimes 
almost frightening, tensions. "Roots of the Blues" may 
not be for gentle souls, but others should welcome its super-charged impact.

"PERHAPS it is better to stay at home. The armchair traveler 
preserves his illusions". This somewhat cynical comment may 
be found in "Blue Skies, Brown Studies", a collection of travel 
essays by William Sansom, who would never consider staying home for 
long. Mr& Sansom is English, bearded, formidably cultivated, the 
versatile author of numerous volumes of short stories, of novels and 
of pieces that are neither short stories nor travel articles but something 
midway between.   The only man alive who seems qualified by 
his learning, his disposition and his addiction to a baroque luxuriance 
of language to inherit the literary mantle of Sacheverell Sitwell, 
Mr& Sansom writes of foreign parts with a dedication to decoration 
worthy of a pastry chef creating a wedding cake for the marriage of 
a Hungarian beauty (her third) and an American multimillionaire (his 
fourth). The result is rather wonderful, but so rich as to be indigestible 
if taken in too thick slices.   There are sixteen essays 
in "Blue Skies, Brown Studies". Most of them were written between 
1953 and 1960 and originally appeared in various magazines. All 
are well written and are overwritten. But, even if Mr& Sansom labors 
too hard to extract more refinements of meaning and feeling from 
his travel experiences than the limits of language allow, he still can 
charm and astound. Too many books and articles are just assembled by 
putting one word after another. Mr& Sansom actually <writes> his 
with a nice ear for a gracefully composed sentence, with an intense 
relish in all the metaphorical resources of English, with a thick shower 
of sophisticated, cultural references. 

#A CONTEMPLATIVE CONNOISSEUR# 
"I like to sniff a place, and reproduce what it really smells 
and looks like, its color, its particular kind of life". This is 
an exact description of what Mr& Sansom does. He ignores guidebook 
facts. He only rarely tells a personal anecdote and hardly ever sketches 
an individual or quotes his opinions. It is an over-all impression 
Mr& Sansom strives for, an impression compounded of visual details, 
of a savory mixture of smells, of much loving attention to architecture 
and scenery, of lights and shadows, of intangibles of atmosphere 
and of echoes of the past.   William Sansom writes only about 
Europe in this book and frequently of such familiar places as London, 
Vienna, the French Riviera and the Norwegian fjords. But no 
matter what he writes about he brings to his subject his own original 
mind and his own sensitive reactions. "A writer lives, at best, in 
a state of astonishment", he says. "Beneath any feeling he has of 
the good or the evil of the world lies a deeper one of wonder at it 
all. To transmit that feeling he writes". This may not be true of 
many writers, but it certainly is true of Mr& Sansom. So in these 
pages one can share his wonder at the traditional fiesta of St& Torpetius 
that still persists in St& Tropez; at the sun and the 
heat of Mediterranean lands, always much brighter and hotter to an Englishman 
than to an American used to summers in New York or Kansas 
City; at the supreme delights to be found in one of the world's 
finest restaurants, La Bonne Auberge, which is situated on the seacoast 
twenty miles west of the Nice airport; and at the infinite variety 
of London.   Mr& Sansom can be eloquent in a spectacular 
way which recalls (to those who recall easily) the statues of Bernini 
and the gigantic paintings of Tintoretto. He can coin a neat phrase: 
"a street spattered with an invigoration of people"; tulips 
with "petals wide and shaggy as a spaniel's ears"; after a 
snowstorm a landscape smelling "of woodsmoke and clarity". And, for 
all his lacquered, almost Byzantine self-consciousness, he can make 
one recognize the aptness of an unexpected comparison. 

#BEAUTY BORROWED 
FROM AFAR#

In one of his best essays Mr& Sansom expresses 
his enthusiasm for the many country mansions designed by Andrea Palladio 
himself that dot the environs of Vicenza. How far that pedimented 
and pillared style has shed its influence Mr& Sansom reminds 
us thus:   "The white colonnaded, cedar-roofed Southern mansion 
is directly traceable via the grey and buff stone of grey-skied England 
to the golden stucco of one particular part of the blue South, 
the Palladian orbit stretching out from Vicenza: the old mind of 
Andrea Palladio still smiles from behind many an old rocking chair 
on a Southern porch, the deep friezes of his architectonic music rise 
firm above the shallower freeze in the kitchen, his feeling for light 
and shade brings a glitter from a tall mint julep, his sense of columns 
framing the warm velvet night has brought together a million couple 
of mating lips". Nice, even if a trifle gaudy.   "Blue Skies, 
Brown Studies" is illustrated with numerous excellent photographs.

IN recent days there have been extensive lamentations over 
the absence of original drama on television, but not for years have 
many regretted the passing of new plays on radio. ~WBAI, the listener-supported 
outlet on the frequency-modulation band, has decided 
to do what it can to correct this aural void. Yesterday it offered 
"Poised for Violence", by Jean Reavey.   ~WBAI is on 
the right track: in the sound medium there has been excessive emphasis 
on music and news and there could and should be a place for theatre, 
as the Canadian and British Broadcasting Corporations continue 
to demonstrate. Unfortunately, "Poised for Violence" was not 
the happiest vehicle with which to make the point. #@#

Mrs& 
Reavey's work is written for the stage- it is mentioned for an off-Broadway 
production in the fall- and, in addition, employs an avant-garde 
structure that particularly needs to be seen if comprehension 
is to be encouraged.   The play's device is to explore society's 
obsession with disaster and violence through the eyes of a group 
of artist's models who remain part of someone else's painting 
rather than just be themselves. In a succession of scenes they appear 
in different guises- patrons of a cafe, performers in a circus and 
participants in a family picnic- but in each instance they inevitably 
put ugliness before beauty. #@#

Somewhere in Mrs& Reavey's 
play there is both protest and aspiration of merit. But its relentless 
discursiveness and determined complexity are so overwhelming that 
after an hour and a half a listener's stamina begins to wilt. Moreover, 
her central figures are so busily fulfilling their multitudinous 
assignments that none emerges as an arresting individual in his own 
right or as a provocative symbol of mankind's ills.   But quite 
conceivably an altogether different impression will obtain when the 
work is offered in the theatre and there can be other effects to relieve 
the burden on the author's words. Which in itself is an immediate 
reward of the ~WBAI experiment; good radio drama has its own 
special demands that badly need reinvigoration.

A WEEKLY showcase for contemporary music, from the austere 
archaism of Stravinsky to the bleeps and bloops of electronic music, 
is celebrating its fourth anniversary this month.   Titled "What's 
New in Music"? the enterprising program is heard Saturday 
afternoons on radio station ~WQXR.   The brief notes 
introducing each work offer salient historical or technical points, and 
many listeners are probably grateful for being intelligently taken by 
the hand through an often difficult maze. The show is programed and 
written by the station's assistant continuity editor, Chuck Briefer.

The first Saturday in each month is set aside for new recordings. 
Last Saturday's interesting melange included Ernst Toch, 
Karlheinz Stockhausen, Richard Yardumian and a brief excerpt from 
a new "space" opera by the Swedish composer, Karl-Birger Blomdahl.

Other Saturdays are devoted to studies of a selected American 
composer, a particular type of music or the music of a given 
country.   It is commendable that a regularly scheduled hour is 
set aside for an introduction to the contemporary musical scene. But 
one wishes, when the appetite is whetted, as it was in the case of 
the all-too-brief excerpt from the Blomdahl opera, that further opportunity 
would be provided both for hearing the works in their entirety 
and for a closer analytical look at the sense and nature of the compositions.

THE Moiseyev Dance Company dropped in at Madison Square 
Garden last night for the first of four farewell performances before 
it brings its long American tour to a close.   It is not simply 
giving a repetition of the program it gave during its New York 
engagement earlier this season, but has brought back many of the numbers 
that were on the bill when it paid us its first visit and won everybody's 
heart.   It is good to see those numbers again. The "Suite 
of Old Russian Dances" that opened that inaugural program 
with the slow and modest entrance of the maidens and built steadily into 
typical Moiseyev vigor and warmth; the amusing "Yurochka", 
in which a hard-to-please young man is given his come-uppance; the 
lovely (and of course vigorous) "Polyanka" or "The Meadow"; 
the three Moldavian dances entitled "Zhok"; the sweet and funny 
little dance about potato planting called "Bul'ba"; and 
the hilarious picture of social life in an earlier day called "City 
Quadrille" are all just as good as one remembers them to have been, 
and they are welcome back.

So, for that matter, are the newer 
dances- the "Kalmuk Dance" with its animal movements, that genial 
juggling act by Sergei Tsvetkov called "The Platter", the 
rousing and beautiful betrothal celebration called "Summer", "The 
Three Shepherds" of Azerbaijan hopping up on their staffs, 
and, of course, the trenchant "Rock 'n' Roll". 
As autumn starts its annual sweep, few Americans and Canadians realize 
how fortunate they are in having the world's finest fall coloring. 
Spectacular displays of this sort are relatively rare in the entire 
land surface of the earth. The only other regions so blessed are the 
British Isles, western Europe, eastern China, southern Chile and 
parts of Japan, New Zealand and Tasmania. Their autumn tints are 
all fairly low keyed compared with the fiery stabs of crimson, gold, 
purple, bronze, blue and vermilion that flame up in North America. 
Jack Frost is not really responsible for this great seasonal spectacle; 
in fact, a freezing autumn dulls the blaze. The best effects come 
from a combination of temperate climate and plenty of late-summer rain, 
followed by sunny days and cool nights. Foliage pilgrimages, either 
organized or individual, are becoming an autumn item for more and 
more Americans each year. Below is a specific guide, keyed to the calendar. 

#NATURE#


_CANADA._ Late September finds Quebec's 
color at its peak, especially in the Laurentian hills and in the area 
south of the St& Lawrence River. In the Maritime provinces farther 
east, the tones are a little quieter. Ontario's foliage is most 
vivid from about Sept& 23 to Oct& 10, with both Muskoka (100 
miles north of Toronto) and Haliburton (125 miles northwest of Toronto) 
holding color cavalcades starting Sept& 23. In the Canadian 
Rockies, great groves of aspen are already glinting gold. _NEW ENGLAND._ 
Vermont's sugar maples are scarlet from Sept& 25 to Oct& 
15, and often hit a height in early October. New Hampshire figures 
its peak around Columbus Day and boasts of all its hardwoods including 
the yellow of the birches. The shades tend to be a little softer 
in the forests that blanket so much of Maine. In western Massachusetts 
and northwest Connecticut, the Berkshires are at their vibrant 
prime the first week of October. 

#MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES._ The 
Adirondacks blaze brightest in early October, choice routes being 
9~N from Saratoga up to Lake George and 73 and 86 in the Lake 
Placid area. Farther south in New York there is a heavy haze of color 
over the Catskills in mid-October, notably along routes 23 and 23~A. 
About the same time the Alleghenies and Poconos in Pennsylvania 
are magnificent- Renovo holds its annual Flaming Foliage Festival 
on Oct& 14, 15. New Jersey's color varies from staccato 
to pastel all the way from the Delaware Water Gap to Cape May. _SOUTHEAST._ 
During the first half of October the Blue Ridge and 
other parts of the Appalachians provide a spectacle stretching from 
Maryland and West Virginia to Georgia. The most brilliant displays 
are along the Skyline Drive above Virginia's Shenandoah Valley 
and throughout the Great Smokies between North Carolina and Tennessee. 

_MIDWEST._ Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota have many 
superb stretches of color which reach their height from the last few 
days of September well into October, especially in their northern sections, 
<e&g&>, Wisconsin's Vilas County whose Colorama 
celebration 
is Sept& 29-Oct& 8. In Wisconsin, take route 55 north 
of Shawano or routes 78 and 60 from Portage to Prairie du Chien. 
In Michigan, there is fine color on route 27 up to the Mackinac Straits, 
while the views around Marquette and Iron Mountain in the 
Upper Peninsula are spectacular. In Minnesota, Arrowhead County 
and route 53 north to International Falls are outstanding. Farther 
south, there are attractive patches all the way to the Ozarks, with some 
seasonal peaks as late as early November. Illinois' Shawnee 
National Forest, Missouri's Iron County and the maples of Hiawatha, 
Kan& should be at their best in mid-October. _THE WEST._ 
The Rockies have many "Aspencades", which are organized tours 
of the aspen areas with frequent stops at vantage points for viewing 
the golden panoramas. In Colorado, Ouray has its Fall Color Week 
Sept& 22-29, Rye and Salida both sponsor Aspencades Sept& 24, 
and Steamboat Springs has a week-long Aspencade Sept& 25-30. 
New Mexico's biggest is at Ruidoso Oct& 7, 8, while Alamogordo 
and Cloudcroft cooperate in similar trips Oct& 1. 

#AMERICANA# 


_PLEASURE DOMES._ Two sharply contrasting places designed for 
public enjoyment are now on display.   The Corn Palace at Mitchell, 
S& Dak&, "the world's corniest building", has a carnival through 
Sept& 23 headlining the Three Stooges and Pee Wee Hunt. 
Since 1892 ears of red, yellow, purple and white corn have annually 
been nailed to 11 big picture panels to create hugh "paintings". The 
1961 theme is the Dakota Territorial Centennial, with the pictures 
including the Lewis and Clark expedition, the first river steamboat, 
the 1876 gold rush, a little red schoolhouse on the prairie, and 
today's construction of large Missouri River reservoirs. The panels 
will stay up until they are replaced next summer.   Longwood 
Gardens, near Kennett Square, Pa& (about 12 miles from Wilmington, 
Del&), was developed and heavily endowed by the late Pierre S& 
du Pont. Every Wednesday night through Oct& 11 there will be 
an elaborate colored fountain display, with 229 nozzles throwing jets 
of water up to 130 feet. The "peacock tail" nozzle throws a giant 
fan of water 100 feet wide and 40 feet high. The gardens themselves 
are open free of charge the year round, and the 192 permanent employes 
make sure that not a dead or wilted flower is ever seen indoors or out 
by any visitor. The greenhouses alone cover 3-1/2 acres. 

#BOOKS# 


_CLOCK WITHOUT HANDS._ Carson McCullers, after a long, painful 
illness that might have crushed a less-indomitable soul, has come 
back with an absolute gem of a novel which jumped high on best-seller 
lists even before official publication. Though the subject- segregation 
in her native South- has been thoroughly worked, Miss McCullers 
uses her poet's instinct and storyteller's skill to reaffirm 
her place at the very top of modern American writing. @ _FRANNY 
AND ZOOEY._ With an art that almost conceals art, J& D& Salinger 
can create a fictional world so authentic that it hurts. Here, in 
the most eagerly awaited novel of the season (his first since <The 
Catcher in the Rye>), he tells of a college girl in flight from the 
life around her and the tart but sympathetic help she gets from her 
25-year-old brother. @ _THE HEAD OF MONSIEUR M&,_ Althea Urn. 
A deft, hilarious satire on very high French society involving a 
statesman with two enviable possessions, a lovely young bride and a head 
containing such weighty thoughts that he has occasionally to remove 
it for greater comfort. There is probably a moral in all this about 
"mind <vs&> heart". @ _A MATTER OF LIFE AND DEATH._ Virgilia 
Peterson, a critic by trade, has turned her critical eye pitilessly 
and honestly on herself in an autobiography more of the mind and 
heart than of specific events. It is an engrossing commentary on a repressive, 
upper-middle-class New York way of life in the first part 
of this 
century. @ _DARK RIDER._ This retelling by Louis Zara of 
the brief, anguished life of Stephen Crane- poet and master novelist 
at 23, dead at 28- is in novelized form but does not abuse its tragic 
subject. @ _RURAL FREE,_ Rachel Peden. Subtitled <A Farmwife's 
Almanac of Country Living>, this is a gentle and nostalgic 
chronicle of the changing seasons seen through the clear, humorous 
eye of a Hoosier housewife and popular columnist. @ 

#DANCE#


_RUSSIANS, 
FILIPINOS._ Two noted troupes from overseas will get the 
fall dance season off to a sparkling start. Leningrad's Kirov Ballet, 
famous for classic purity of technique, begins its first U&S& 
tour in New York (through Sept& 30). The Bayanihan Philippine 
Dance Company, with music and dances that depict the many facets 
of Filipino culture, opens its 60-city U&S& tour in San Francisco 
(through Sept& 24) then, via one-night stands, moves on to 
Los 
los Angeles (Sept& 29-Oct& 1). 

#FESTIVALS#


_ACROSS THE LAND._ 
With harvests in full swing, you can enjoy festivals for grapes 
at Sonoma, Calif& (Sept& 22-24), as well as for cranberries 
at Bandon, Ore& (Sept& 28-Oct& 1), for buckwheat at Kingwood, 
W& Va& (Sept& 28-30), sugar cane at New Iberia, La& (Sept& 
29-Oct& 1) and tobacco at Richmond, Va& (Sept& 23-30).

The mule is honored at Benson, N&C& (Sept& 22,23) 
and at Boron, Calif& (Sept& 24-Oct& 1), while the legend 
of 
the Maid of the Mist is celebrated at Niagara Falls through the 
24th. The fine old mansions of U&S& Grant's old home town of 
Galena, Ill& are open for inspection (Sept& 23, 24). An archery 
tournament will be held at North Falmouth, Mass& (Sept& 23, 
24). The 300th anniversaries of Staten Island (through Sept& 23) 
and of Mamaroneck, N&Y& (through Sept& 24) will both include 
parades and pageants. 

#MOVIES#


_PURPLE NOON:_ This French 
film, set in Italy, is a summertime splurge in shock and terror all 
shot in lovely sunny scenery- so breath-taking that at times you 
almost forget the horrors the movie is dealing with. But slowly they 
take over as Alain Delon (LIFE, Sept& 15), playing a sometimes 
appealing but always criminal boy, casually tells a rich and foot-loose 
American that he is going to murder him, then does it even while 
the American is trying to puzzle out how Delon expects to profit from 
the act. 

#RECORDS#


_NORMA._ Callas devotees will have good 
reason to do their customary cart wheels over a new and complete stereo 
version of the Bellini opera. Maria goes all out as a Druid princess 
who gets two-timed by a Roman big shot. By turns, her beautifully 
sung Norma is fierce, tender, venomous and pitiful. The tenor lead, 
Franco Corelli, and La Scala cast under Maestro Tullio Serafin 
are all first rate. @ _JEREMIAH PEABODY'S POLYUNSATURATED QUICK 
DISSOLVING FAST ACTING PLEASANT TASTING GREEN AND PURPLE PILLS._ 
In a raucous take-off on radio commercials, Singer Ray Stevens hawks 
a cure-all for neuritis, neuralgia, head-cold distress, beriberi, 
overweight, fungus, mungus and water on the knee. @ 
Of the nation's eight million pleasure-boat owners a sizable number 
have learned that late autumn is one of the loveliest seasons to be afloat- 
at least in that broad balmy region that lies below America's 
belt line. Waterways are busy right now from the Virginia capes 
to the Texas coast. There true yachtsmen often find November winds 
steadier, the waters cooler, the fish hungrier, and rivers more pleasant- 
less turbulence and mud, and fewer floating logs.   More and 
more boats move overland on wheels (1.8 million trailers are now in 
use) and Midwesterners taking long weekends can travel south with their 
craft. In the Southwest, the fall brings out flotillas of boatsmen 
who find the summer too hot for comfort. And on northern shores indomitable 
sailors from Long Island to Lake Michigan will beat around 
the buoys in dozens of frostbite races. Some pleasant fall cruising 
country is mapped out below. 

#BOATING#


_WEST COAST._ Pleasure 
boating is just scooting into its best months in California as crisp 
breezes bring out craft of every size on every kind of water- ocean, 
lake and reservoir. Shore facilities are enormous- Los Angeles 
harbors 5,000 boats, and Long Beach 3,000- but marinas are crowded 
everywhere. New docks and ramps are being rushed at Playa del Rey, 
Ventura, Dana Point, Oceanside and Mission Bay.   Inland, 
outboard motorists welcome cooler weather and the chance to buzz over 
Colorado River sandbars and Lake Mead. Newest small-boat playground 
is the Salton Sea, a once-dry desert sinkhole which is now a 
salty lake 42 miles long and 235 feet below sea level. On Nov& 11, 
12, racers will drive their flying shingles in 5-mile laps over its 500-mile 
speedboat course. In San Francisco Bay, winds are gusty and 
undependable 
during this season. A sailboat may have a bone in her teeth 
one minute and lie becalmed the next. But regattas are scheduled 
right up to Christmas. The Corinthian Yacht Club in Tiburon launches 
its winter races Nov& 5. _GULF COAST._ Hurricane Carla damaged 
70% of the marinas in the Galveston-Port Aransas area but 
fuel service is back to normal, and explorers can roam as far west as 
Port Isabel on the Mexican border. Sailing activity is slowed down 
by Texas northers, but power cruisers can move freely, poking into the 
San Jacinto, Trinity and Brazos rivers (fine tarpon fishing in 
the Brazos) or pushing eastward to the pirate country of Barataria. 
Off Grand Isle, yachters often visit the towering oil rigs. The Mississippi 
Sound leads into a protected waterway running about 200 miles 
from Pascagoula to Apalachicola. _LOWER MISSISSIPPI._ Memphis 
stinkpotters like McKellar Lake, inside the city limits, and sailors 
look for autumn winds at Arkabutla Lake where fall racing is 
now in progress. River cruising for small craft is ideal in November. 
At New Orleans, 25-mile-square Lake Pontchartrain has few squalls 
and year-long boating. Marinas are less plush than the Florida type 
but service is good and Creole cooking better. _~TVA LAKES._ 
Ten thousand twisty miles of shoreline frame the 30-odd lakes in the 
vast Tennessee River system that loops in and out of seven states. 
When dam construction began in 1933, fewer than 600 boats used these 
waters; today there are 48,500.

{A YEAR} ago it was bruited that the primary character 
in Erich 
Maria Remarque's new novel was based on the Marquis Alfonso 
de Portago, the Spanish nobleman who died driving in the Mille Miglia 
automobile race of 1957. If this was in fact Mr& Remarque's 
intention he has achieved a notable failure. Clerfayt of "Heaven 
Has No Favorites" resembles Portago only in that he is male and 
a race-driver- quite a bad race-driver, whereas Portago was a good 
one. He is a dull, unformed, and aimless person; the twelfth Marquis 
de Portago was intelligent, purposeful, and passionate.   One 
looked forward to Mr& Remarque's ninth book if only because 
not even a reasonably good novel has yet been written grounded on automobile 
racing, as dramatic a sport as mankind has devised. Unhappily, 
"Heaven Has No Favorites" does not alter the record except to 
add one more bad book to the list.   Mr& Remarque's conception 
of this novel was sound and perhaps even noble. He proposed throwing 
together a man in an occupation of high hazard and a woman balanced 
on a knife-edge between death from tuberculosis and recovery. His 
treatment of it is something else. His heroine chooses to die- the 
price of recovery, years under the strict regimen of a sanatorium, being 
higher than she wishes to pay. Her lover precedes her in death, at 
the wheel, and presumably he too has chosen. Between the first meeting 
of Clerfayt and Lillian and this dismal denouement, Mr& Remarque 
has laid down many pages of junior-philosophical discourse, some demure 
and rather fetching love-making, pleasant talk about some of the 
countryside and restaurants of Europe, and a modicum of automobile racing. 
The ramblings on life, death, and the wonder of it all are distressing; 
the love-making, perhaps because it is pale and low-key when 
one has been conditioned to expect harsh colors and explicitness, is 
often charming; the automobile racing bears little relation to reality.

This latter failure is more than merely bad reportage and 
it is distinctly more important than it would have been had the author 
drawn Clerfayt as, say, a tournament golfer. Hazards to life and 
limb on the golf course, while existent, are actuarially insignificant. 
Race-drivers, on the other hand, are quite often killed on the circuit, 
and since it was obviously Mr& Remarque's intention to establish 
automobile racing as life in microcosm, one might reasonably have 
expected him to demonstrate precise knowledge not only of techniques 
but of mores and attitudes. He does not. The jacket biography describes 
him as a former racing driver, and he may indeed have been, although 
I do not recall having encountered his name either in the records 
or the literature. Perhaps he has only forgotten a great deal. The 
book carries a disclaimer in which Remarque says it has been necessary 
for him to take minor liberties with some of the procedures and formalities 
of racing. The necessity is not clear to me, and, in any case, 
to present a case-hardened race-driver as saying he has left his car, 
which, or whom, he calls "Giuseppe", parked "on the Place Vendome 
sneering at a dozen Bentleys and Rolls-Royces parked around 
him" is not a liberty; it is an absurdity.   But it is in the 
matter of preoccupation with death, which is the primary concern of 
the book, that Remarque's failure is plainest. Clerfayt is neurotic, 
preoccupied, and passive. To be human, he believes, is to seek one's 
own destruction: the Freudian "death-wish" cliche inevitably 
cited whenever laymen talk about auto race-drivers. In point of fact, 
the race-drivers one knows are nearly always intelligent, healthy 
technicians who differ from other technicians only in the depth of the 
passion they feel for the work by which they live. A Clerfayt may moon 
on about the face of Death in the cockpit; a Portago could say, 
as he did say to me, "If I die tomorrow, still I have had twenty-eight 
wonderful years; but I shan't die tomorrow; I'll live 
to be 105".   Clerfayt, transported, may think of the engine 
driving his car as "a mystical beast under the hood". The Italian 
master Piero Taruffi, no less sensitive, knows twice the ecstasy 
though he thinks of a car's adhesion to a wet two-lane road at 165 miles 
an hour as a matter best expressed in algebraic formulae. Clerfayt, 
driving, 
sees himself "a volcano whose cone funneled down to hell"; 
the Briton Stirling Moss, one of the greatest <virtuosi> of all 
time, believes that ultra-fast road-circuit driving is an art form related 
to ballet.   Errors in technical terminology suggest that 
the over-all translation from the German may not convey quite everything 
Mr& Remarque hoped to tell us.   However, my principal 
objection in this sort of novel is to the hackneyed treatment of race-drivers, 
pilots, submariners, atomic researchers, and all the machine-masters 
of our age as brooding mystics or hysterical fatalists.

{THE WEST} is leaderless, according to this book. In 
contrast, 
the East is ably led by such stalwart heroes as Khrushchev, Tito, 
and Mao. Against this invincible determination to communize the 
whole world stands a group of nations unable to agree on fundamentals 
and each refusing to make any sacrifice of sovereignty for the common 
good of all.   It is Field Marshal Montgomery's belief that 
in most Western countries about 60 per cent of the people do not really 
care about democracy or Christianity; about 30 per cent call themselves 
Christians in order to keep up appearances and be considered 
respectable, and only the last 10 per cent are genuine Christians and 
believers in democracy.   But these Western countries do care 
about themselves. Each feels intensely national. If, say, the Russians 
intended to stop Tom Jones' going to the pub, then Tom Jones 
would fight the Commies. But he would fight for his own liberty rather 
than for any abstract principle connected with it- such as "cause". 
For all practical purposes, the West stands disunited, undedicated, 
and unprepared for the tasks of world leadership.   With 
this barrage, Montgomery of Alamein launches his attack upon the 
blunderings of the West. Never given to mincing words, he places heavy 
blame upon the faulty, uncourageous leadership of Britain and particularly 
America. At war's end leadership in Western Europe passed 
from Britain because the Labour Government devoted its attention 
to the creation of a welfare state. With Britain looking inward, overseas 
problems were neglected and the baton was passed on to the United 
States.   Montgomery believes that she started well. "America 
gave generously in economic aid and military equipment to friend 
and foe alike". She pushed wartorn and poverty-stricken nations into 
prosperity, but she failed to lead them into unity and world peace. 
America has divided more than she has united the West. The reasons 
are that America generally believes that she can buy anything with 
dollars, and that she compulsively strives to be liked. However, she 
really does not know how to match the quantity of dollars given away by 
a quality of leadership that is basically needed.   But the greater 
reason for fumbling, stumbling American leadership is due to the 
shock her pride suffered when the Japanese attacked at Pearl Harbor. 
"They are determined", Montgomery writes, "not to be surprised 
again, and now insist on a state of readiness for war which is not 
only unnecessary, but also creates nervousness **h among other nations 
in the Western Alliance- not to mention such great suspicions among 
the nations of the Eastern bloc that any progress towards peaceful 
coexistence or disarmament is not possible".   The net result 
is that under American leadership the general world situation has 
become bad. To "Monty", the American people, who in two previous 
world wars were very reluctant to join the fight, "now look like the 
nation most likely to lead us all into a third World War". ## 
{AS} 
faulty as has been our leadership clearly the United States 
must be relied upon to lead. The path to leadership is made clear. 
Montgomery calls for a leader who will first put the West's own 
house in order. Such a man must be able and willing to give clear and 
sensible advice to the whole group, a person in whom all the member nations 
will have absolute confidence. This leader must be a man who lives 
above illusions that heretofore have shaped the foreign policy of 
the United States, namely that Russia will agree to a reunited Germany, 
that the East German government does not exist, that events in 
Japan in June 1960 were Communist-inspired, that the true government 
of China is in Formosa, that Mao was the evil influence behind 
Khrushchev at the Summit Conference in Paris in May 1960, and that 
either China or Russia wants or expects war.   Such a leader 
must strengthen ~NATO politically, and establish that true unity 
about which it has always talked. After drastically overhauling ~NATO, 
Western leadership should turn to reducing the suspicions that 
tear apart the East and West. Major to this effort is to get all 
world powers to withdraw to their own territories, say by 1970. "The 
West should make the central proposal; but the East would have 
to show sincerity in carrying it out".   "But where is the 
leader who will handle all these things for us"? Montgomery knew 
all the national leaders up to the time of Kennedy. The man whom he 
would select as our leader for this great task is de Gaulle. He alone 
has the wisdom, the conviction, the tenacity, and the courage to reach 
a decision. But de Gaulle is buried in the cause of restoring France's 
lost soul.   Whoever rises to the occasion walks a treacherous 
path to leadership. The leader Montgomery envisages will need 
to discipline himself, lead a carefully regulated and orderly life, 
allow time for quiet thought and reflection, adapt decisions and plans 
to changing situations, be ruthless, particularly with inefficiency, 
and be honest and morally proper. All in all, Montgomery calls for a 
leader who will anticipate and dominate the events that surround him. 
##

{IN LOOKING} as far back as Moses, thence to Cromwell, 
Napoleon, Lincoln, Churchill, and Nehru, Montgomery attempts 
to trace the stirrings and qualities of great men. He believes that 
greatness is a marriage between the man and the times as was aptly represented 
by Churchill, who would very possibly have gone down in history 
as a political failure if it had not been for Hitler's war.

However, Montgomery makes little contribution to leadership theory 
and practice. Most of what is said about his great men of history 
has already been said, and what has not is largely irrelevant to the contemporary 
scene. Like Eisenhower, he holds the militarist's suspicion 
of politicians. However, at the same time Montgomery selects as 
his hero de Gaulle, who is a militarist dominated by political ambitions. 
"Monty" shows a remarkable capacity for the direct statement 
and an equally remarkable incapacity for giving adequate support. 
For the most part, his writing rambles and jogs, preventing easy access 
by the reader to his true thoughts.   Nevertheless, Montgomery 
has stated courageously and wisely the crisis of the Western world. 
It suffers from a lack of unity of purpose and respect for heroic leadership. 
And it remains to be seen if the new frontier now taking form 
can produce the leadership and wisdom necessary to understand the 
current shape of events.

{IT IS} no common thing for a listener (critical or otherwise) 
to hear a singer "live" for the first time only after he 
has died. But then, Mario Lanza was no common singer, and his whole 
career, public and non-public, was studded with the kind of unconventional 
happenings that terminate with the appearance of his first "recital" 
only when he has ceased to be a living voice. It is a kind 
of justice, too, that it should originate in London's Royal Albert 
Hall, where, traditionally, the loudest, if not the greatest, performers 
have entertained the thousands it will accommodate (~RCA Victor 
~LM 2454, $4.98).   To be sure, Lanza made numerous concert 
tours, here and abroad, but these did not take him to New York 
where the carping critic might lurk.

The reading public, the theatergoing public, the skindiving 
public, the 
horse-playing public- all these and others fill substantial roles 
in U&S& life, but none is so varied, vast and vigilant as the eating 
public. The Department of Agriculture averaged out U&S& 
food consumption last year at 1,488 lbs& per person, which, allowing 
for the 17 million Americans that John Kennedy said go to bed hungry 
every night, means that certain gluttons on the upper end must somehow 
down 8 lbs& or more a day. That mother hen of the weight-height 
tables, the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co&, clucks that 48 million 
Americans are overweight.   Through previous centuries, eating 
changed by nearly imperceptible degrees, and mostly toward just 
getting enough. Now big forces buffet food. For the first time in history, 
the U&S& has produced a society in which less than one-tenth 
of the people turn out so much food that the Government's most 
embarrassing problem is how to dispose inconspicuously of 100 million 
tons of surplus farm produce. In this same society, the plain citizen 
can with an average of only one-fifth his income buy more calories than 
he can consume. Refrigeration, automated processing and packaging 
conspire to defy season and banish spoilage. And in the wake of the new 
affluence and the new techniques of processing comes a new American 
interest in how what people eat affects their health. To eat is human, 
the nation is learning to think, to survive divine. 

#FADS, FACTS 
**H#

Not all the concern for health is well directed. From the fusty 
panaceas of spinach, eggs and prunes, the U&S& has progressed 
to curds, concentrates and capsules. Each year, reports the American 
Medical Association, ten million Americans spend $900 million on 
vitamins, tonics and other food supplements. At juice bars in Los 
Angeles' 35 "health" stores, a new sensation is a pink, high-protein 
cocktail, concocted of dried eggs, powdered milk and cherry-flavored 
No-Cal, which sells for 59@ per 8-oz& glass. Grocery stores 
sell dozens of foods that boast of having almost no food value at all.

But a big part of the public wants to know facts about diet 
and health, and a big group of U&S& scientists wants to supply 
them. The man most firmly at grips with the problem is the University 
of Minnesota's Physiologist Ancel Keys, 57, inventor of the wartime 
~K (for Keys) ration and author of last year's bestselling 
<Eat Well and Stay Well>. From his birch-paneled office in the 
Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene, under the university's football 
stadium in Minneapolis ("We get a rumble on every touchdown"), 
blocky, grey-haired Dr& Keys directs an ambitious, $200,000-a-year 
experiment on diet, which spans three continents and seven nations 
and is still growing. Pursuing it, he has logged 500,000 miles, suffered 
indescribable digestive indignities, and meticulously collected 
physiological data on the health and eating habits of 10,000 individuals, 
from Bantu tribesmen to Italian <contadini>. He has measured 
the skinfolds (the fleshy areas under the shoulder blades) of Neapolitan 
firemen, studied the metabolism of Finnish woodcutters, analyzed 
the "mealie-meal" eaten by Capetown coloreds, and experimented 
on Minneapolis businessmen. #**H AND FATS.#

Keys's findings, 
though far from complete, are likely to smash many an eating cliche. 
Vitamins, eggs and milk begin to look like foods to hold down on (though 
mothers' milk is still the ticket). Readings of the number of milligrams 
of cholesterol in the blood, which seem to have value in predicting 
heart attacks, are becoming as routine as the electrocardiogram, 
which can show that the heart has suffered a symptomatic attack. Already 
many an American knows his count, and rejoices or worries depending 
on whether it is nearer 180 (safe) or 250 (dangerous).   Out 
of cholesterol come Keys's main messages so far:   @ Americans 
eat too much. The typical U&S& daily menu, says Dr& 
Keys, contains 3,000 calories, should contain 2,300. And extra weight 
increases the risk of cancer, diabetes, artery disease and heart attack.

@ Americans eat too much fat. With meat, milk, butter 
and ice cream, the calorie-heavy U&S& diet is 40% fat, and most 
of that is saturated fat- the insidious kind, says Dr& Keys, 
that increases blood cholesterol, damages arteries, and leads to coronary 
disease. 

#OBESITY: A MALNUTRITION.#

Throughout much of the 
world, food is still so scarce that half of the earth's population 
has trouble getting the 1,600 calories a day necessary to sustain life. 
The deficiency diseases- scurvy, tropical sprue, pellagra- run 
rampant. In West Africa, for example, where meat is a luxury and babies 
must be weaned early to make room at the breast for later arrivals, 
a childhood menace is <kwashiorkor,> or "red Johnny", a growth-stunting 
protein deficiency (signs: reddish hair, bloated belly) 
that kills more than half its victims, leaves the rest prey for parasites 
and lingering tropical disease.   In the well-fed U&S&, 
deficiency diseases have virtually vanished in the past 20 years. Today, 
as Harrison's <Principles of Internal Medicine,> a standard 
internist's text, puts it, "The most common form of malnutrition 
is caloric excess or obesity".   Puritan New England regarded 
obesity as a flagrant symbol of intemperance, and thus a sin. Says 
Keys: "Maybe if the idea got around again that obesity is immoral, 
the fat man would start to think". Morals aside, the fat man 
has plenty to worry about- over and above the fact that no one any 
longer loves him. The simple mechanical strain of overweight, says New 
York's Dr& Norman Jolliffe, can overburden and damage the 
heart "for much the same reason that a Chevrolet engine in a Cadillac 
body would wear out sooner than if it were in a body for which it 
was built". The fat man has trouble buying life insurance or has to 
pay higher premiums. He has- for unclear reasons- a 25% higher 
death rate from cancer. He is particularly vulnerable to diabetes. He 
may find even moderate physical exertion uncomfortable, because excess 
body fat hampers his breathing and restricts his muscular movement.

Physiologically, people overeat because what Dr& Jolliffe 
calls the "appestat" is set too high. The appestat, which adjusts 
the appetite to keep weight constant, is located, says Jolliffe, 
in the hypothalamus- near the body's temperature, sleep and water-balance 
controls. Physical exercise raises the appestat. So does cold 
weather. In moderate doses, alcohol narcotizes the appestat and enhances 
appetite (the original reason for the cocktail); but because liquor 
has a high caloric value- 100 calories per oz&- the heavy 
drinker is seldom hungry. In rare cases, diseases such as encephalitis 
or a pituitary tumor may damage the appestat permanently, destroying 
nearly all sense of satiety. 

#FOOD FOR FRUSTRATION.#

Far more frequently, 
overeating 
is the result of a psychological compulsion. It 
may be fostered by frustration, depression, insecurity- or, in children, 
simply by the desire to stop an anxious mother's nagging. Some 
families place undue emphasis on food: conversations center on it, 
and rich delicacies are offered as rewards, withheld as punishment. The 
result says Jolliffe: "The child gains the feeling that food 
is the purpose of life". Food may act as a sedative, giving temporary 
emotional solace, just as, for some people, alcohol does. Reports 
Dr& Keys: "A fairly common experience for us is the wife who 
finds her husband staying out more and more. He may be interested in 
another woman, or just like being with the boys. So she fishes around 
in the cupboard and hauls out a chocolate cake. It's a matter of 
boredom, and the subconscious feeling that she is entitled to something, 
because she's being deprived of something else".   For the 
army of compulsive eaters- from the nibblers and the gobblers to 
the downright gluttons- reducing is a war with the will that is rarely 
won. Physiologist Keys flatly dismisses such appetite depressants 
as the amphetamines 
(Benzedrine, Dexedrine) as dangerous "crutches 
for a weak will".   Keys has no such objections to Metrecal, 
Quaker Oats's Quota and other 900-calorie milk formulas that are 
currently winning favor from dieters. "Metrecal is a pretty complete 
food", he says. "It contains large amounts of protein, vitamins 
and minerals. In the quantity of 900 calories a day, anyone will lose 
weight on it- 20, 30 or 40 lbs&". But Keys worries that the 
Metrecal drinker will never make either the psychological or physiological 
adjustment to the idea of eating smaller portions of food. 

#THAT 
REMARKABLE CHOLESTEROL.#

Despite his personal distaste for obesity 
("disgusting"), Dr& Keys has only an incidental interest 
in how much Americans eat. What concerns him much more is the relationship 
of diet to the nation's No& 1 killer: coronary artery disease, 
which accounts for more than half of all heart fatalities and kills 
500,000 Americans a year- twice the toll from all varieties of 
cancer, five times the deaths from automobile accidents.   Cholesterol, 
the cornerstone of Dr& Keys's theory, is a mysterious 
yellowish, 
waxy substance, chemically a crystalline alcohol. Scientists 
assume that cholesterol (from the Greek <chole,> meaning bile, and 
<sterios,> meaning solid) is somehow necessary for the formation of 
brain cells, since it accounts for about 2% of the brain's total 
solid weight. They know it is the chief ingredient in gallstones. They 
suspect it plays a role in the production of adrenal hormones, and 
they believe it is essential to the transport of fats throughout the 
circulatory system. But they cannot fully explain the process of its 
manufacture by the human liver. Although the fatty protein molecules, 
carried in the blood and partly composed of cholesterol, are water soluble, 
cholesterol itself is insoluble, and cannot be destroyed by the 
body. "A remarkable substance", says Dr& Keys, "quite apart 
from its tendency to be deposited in the walls of arteries".

When thus deposited, Keys says that cholesterol is mainly responsible 
for the arterial blockages that culminate in heart attacks. Explains 
Keys: As the fatty protein molecules travel in the bloodstream, 
they are deposited in the intima, or inner wall of a coronary artery. 
The proteins and fats are burned off, and the cholesterol is left 
behind. As cholesterol piles up, it narrows, irritates and damages the 
artery, encouraging formation of calcium deposits and slowing circulation. 
Eventually, says Keys, one of two things happens. A clot forms 
at the site, seals off the flow of blood to the heart and provokes 
a heart attack. Or (more commonly, thinks Keys) the deposits themselves 
get so big that they choke off the artery's flow to the point that 
an infarct occurs: the heart muscle is suffocated, cells supplied 
by the artery die, and the heart is permanently, perhaps fatally injured. 

#FATS + CORONARIES.#

Ordinarily, the human liver synthesizes 
only enough cholesterol to satisfy the body's needs- for transportation 
of fats and for production of bile. Even eggs and other cholesterol-rich 
foods, eaten in normal amounts, says Dr& Keys, do not materially 
affect the amount of cholesterol in the blood. But fatty foods 
do.   During World War /2,, doctors in The Netherlands 
and Scandinavia noted a curious fact: despite the stresses of Nazi 
occupation, the death rate from coronary artery disease was slowly dropping. 
Not until long after the war- 1950, in fact- did they get 
a hint of the reason. That year, Sweden's Haqvin Malmros showed 
that the sinking death rate neatly coincided with increasingly severe 
restrictions on fatty foods. That same year the University of California's 
Dr& Laurance Kinsell, timing oxidation rates of blood 
fats, stumbled onto the discovery that many vegetable fats cause blood 
cholesterol levels to drop radically, while animal fats cause them to 
rise. Here Keys and others, such as Dr& A& E& Ahrens of 
the Rockefeller Institute, took over to demonstrate the chemical difference 
between vegetable and animal fats- and even between different 
varieties of each.   All natural food fats fall into one of three 
categories- saturated, mono-unsaturated and poly-unsaturated. 
The 
degree of saturation depends on the number of hydrogen atoms on the 
fat molecule. Saturated fats can accommodate no more hydrogens. Mono-unsaturated 
fats have room for two more hydrogens on each molecule, 
and the poly-unsaturated fat molecule has room for at least four hydrogens.

The three fats have similar caloric values (about 265 calories 
per oz&), but each exerts a radically different influence on 
blood cholesterol. 
As a result, although we still make use of this distinction, there is 
much confusion as to the meaning of the basic terms employed. Just what 
is meant by "spirit" and by "matter"? The terms are generally 
taken for granted as though they referred to direct and axiomatic 
elements in the common experience of all. Yet in the contemporary 
context this is precisely what one must not do. For in the modern world 
neither "spirit" nor "matter" refer to any generally agreed-upon 
elements of experience. We are in a transitional stage in which 
many of the connotations of former usage have had to be revised or rejected. 
When the words are used, we are never sure which of the traditional 
meanings the user may have in mind, or to what extent his revisions 
and rejections of former understandings correspond to ours.

One of the most widespread features of contemporary thought is the 
almost universal disbelief in the reality of spirit. Just a few centuries 
ago the world of spirits was as populous and real as the world of 
material entities. Not only in popular thought but in that of the highly 
educated as well was this true. Demons, fairies, angels, and a host 
of other spiritual beings were as much a part of the experiential 
world of western man as were rocks and trees and stars. In such a world 
the words "matter" and "spirit" both referred to directly 
known realities in the common experience of all. In it important elements 
of Christianity and of the Biblical view of reality in general, 
which now cause us much difficulty, could be responded to quite naturally 
and spontaneously.   The progress of science over these last 
few centuries and the gradual replacement of Biblical by scientific 
categories of reality have to a large extent emptied the spirit world 
of the entities which previously populated it. In carrying out this 
program science has undoubtedly performed a very considerable service 
for which it can claim due credit. The objectification of the world 
of spirit in popular superstition had certainly gone far beyond what the 
experience of spirit could justify or support. Science is fully competent 
to deal with any element of experience which arises from an object 
in space and time. When, therefore, it turned its attention to the 
concrete entities with which popular imagination had peopled the world 
of spirit, these entities soon lost whatever status they had enjoyed 
as actual elements of external reality. In doing so science has unquestionably 
cleared up widespread misconceptions, removed extraneous 
and illusory sources of fear, and dispelled many undesirable popular 
superstitions. There have been, indeed, many important and valuable gains 
from the development of our present scientific view of the world 
for which we may be rightly grateful.   All this has not, however, 
been an unmixed blessing. The scientific debunking of the spirit world 
has been in a way too successful and too thorough. The house has 
been swept so clean that contemporary man has been left with no means, 
or at best with wholly inadequate means, for dealing with his experience 
of spirit. Although the particular form of conceptualization which 
popular imagination had made in response to the experience of spirit 
was undoubtedly defective, the raw experience itself which led to such 
excesses remains with us as vividly as ever. We simply find ourselves 
in the position of having no means for inquiring into the structure 
and meaning of this range of our experience. There is no framework 
or structure of thought with respect to which we can organize it and 
no part 
of reality, as we know and apprehend it, with respect to which we 
can refer this experience. Science has simply left us helpless and powerless 
in this important sector of our lives.   The situation in 
which we find ourselves is brought out with dramatic force in Arthur 
Miller's play <The Crucible,> which deals with the Salem witch 
trials. As the play opens the audience is introduced to the community 
of Salem in Puritan America at the end of the eighteenth century. 
Aside from a quaint concern with witches and devils which provides 
the immediate problem in the opening scene, it is a quite normal community. 
The conversation of the characters creates an atmosphere suggesting 
the usual mixture of pleasures, foibles, irritations, and concerns 
which would characterize the common life of a normal village in any 
age. There is no occasion to feel uneasy or disturbed about these people. 
Instead, the audience can sit back at ease and, from the perspective 
of an enlightened time which no longer believes in such things, 
enjoy the dead seriousness with which the characters in the play take 
the witches and devils which are under discussion. A teenage girl, Abigail 
Williams, is being sharply questioned by her minister uncle, 
the Reverend Samuel Parris, about a wild night affair in the woods 
in which she and some other girls had seemed to have had contact with 
these evil beings. For all involved in this discussion the devil is 
a real entity who can really be confronted in the woods on a dark night, 
the demon world is populated with real creatures, and witches actually 
can be seen flying through the air.   As the play unfolds, however, 
the audience is subtly brought into the grip of an awful evil 
which grows with ominously gathering power and soon engulfs the community. 
Everyone in Salem, saint and sinner alike, is swept up by it. 
It is like a mysterious epidemic which, starting first with Abigail 
and Parris, spreads inexorably with a dreadfully growing virulence through 
the whole town until all have been infected by it. It grows terribly 
and unavoidably in power and leaves in its wake a trail of misery, 
moral disintegration, and destruction. The audience leaves the play 
under a spell, It is the kind of spell which the exposure to spirit 
in its living active manifestation always evokes.   If one asks 
about this play, what it is that comes upon this community and works 
within it with such terrible power, there is no better answer to give 
than "spirit". This is not to attempt to say what spirit is, but 
only to employ a commonly used word to designate or simply identify a 
common experience. In the end the good man, John Proctor, expresses 
what the audience has already come to feel when he says, "A fire, 
a fire is burning! I hear the boot of Lucifer, I see his filthy 
face"! The tragic irony of the play is that the very belief in and 
concern with a devil who could be met in the woods and combatted with 
formulae set out in books was the very thing that prevented them from 
detecting the real devil when he came among them. We marvel at their 
blindness for not seeing this. Yet are not we of the mid-twentieth 
century, who rightly do not believe there is any such "thing" as the 
devil, just as bad off as they- only in a different way? In our 
disbelief we think that we can no longer even use the word and so are 
unable to even name the elemental power which is so vividly real in 
this play. We are left helpless to cope with it because we do not dare 
speak of it as anything real for fear that to do so would imply a commitment 
to that which has already been discredited and proved false.

Even Mr& Miller himself seems uncertain on this score. In 
a long commentary which he has inserted in the published text of the 
first act of the play, he says at one point: "However, that experience 
never raised a doubt in his mind as to the reality of the underworld 
or the existence of Lucifer's many-faced lieutenants. And his 
belief is not to his discredit. Better minds than Hale's were- 
and still are- convinced that there is a society of spirits beyond 
our ken". (page 33) On the other hand, a little later on he says: 
"Since 1692 a great but superficial change has wiped out God's 
beard and the Devil's horns, but the world is still gripped between 
two diametrically opposed absolutes. The concept of unity, in which 
positive and negative are attributes of the same force, in which good 
and evil are relative, ever-changing, and always joined to the same phenomenon- 
such a concept is still reserved to the physical sciences 
and to the few who have grasped the history of ideas **h. When we see 
the steady and methodical inculcation into humanity of the idea of man's 
worthlessness- until redeemed- the necessity of the Devil may 
become evident as a weapon, a weapon designed and used time and time 
again in every age to whip men into a surrender to a particular church 
or church-state". (page 34)   Apparently he does not intend 
that those who read or view this play should think of the devil as being 
actually real. Yet such is the dramatic power of his writing that 
the audience is nevertheless left in the grip of the terrible power and 
potency of that which came over Salem. It casts a spell upon them 
so that they leave with a feeling of having been in the mysterious presence 
of an evil power. It is not enough in accounting for this feeling 
to analyze it into the wickedness of individual people added together 
to produce a cumulative effect. For this does not account for the 
integral, elemental power of that which grows with abounding vigor as 
the play unfolds, nor does it explain the strange numinous sense of presentness 
which comes over those who watch the play like a spell. The 
reality of spirit emerges in this play in spite of the author's convictions 
to the contrary. 

#SPIRIT AND COMMUNITY#
 
 There is 
nothing in the whole range of human experience more widely known and 
universally felt than spirit. Apart from spirit there could be no community, 
for it is spirit which draws men into community and gives to any 
community its unity, cohesiveness, and permanence. Think, for example, 
of the spirit of the Marine Corps. Surely this is a reality we 
all acknowledge. We cannot, of course, assign it any substance. It 
is not material and is not a "thing" occupying space and time. Yet 
it exists and has an objective reality which can be experienced and 
known. So it is too with many other spirits which we all know: the 
spirit of Nazism or Communism, school spirit, the spirit of a street 
corner gang or a football team, the spirit of Rotary or the Ku Klux 
Klan. Every community, if it is alive has a spirit, and that spirit 
is the center of its unity and identity.   In searching for clues 
which might lead us to a fresh apprehension of the reality of spirit, 
the close connection between spirit and community is likely to prove 
the most fruitful. For it is primarily in community that we know and 
experience spirit. It is spirit which gives life to a community and 
causes it to cohere. It is the spirit which is the source of a community's 
drawing power by means of which others are drawn into it from 
the world outside so that the community grows and prospers. Yet the 
spirit which lives in community is not identical with the community. 
The idea of community and the idea of spirit are two distinct and separable 
ideas.   One characteristic of the spirit in community is 
its givenness. The members of the community do not create the spirit 
but rather find it present and waiting for them. It is for them a given 
which they and they alone possess. The spirit of the Marine Corps 
was present and operative before any of the present members of it came 
into it. It is they, of course, who keep it alive and preserve it 
so the same spirit will continue to be present in the Corps for future 
recruits to find as they come into it. 
If the content of faith is to be presented today in a form that can be 
"understanded of the people"- and this, it must not be forgotten, 
is one of the goals of the perennial theological task- there is 
no other choice but to abandon completely a mythological manner of 
representation.

This does not mean that mythological language as 
such can no longer be used in theology and preaching. The absurd notion 
that demythologization entails the expurgation of all mythological 
concepts completely misrepresents Bultmann's intention. His point 
is not that mythology may not be used, but that it may no longer be regarded 
as the only or even the most appropriate conceptuality for expressing 
the Christian kerygma. When we say that a mythological mode 
of thought must be completely abandoned, we mean it must be abandoned 
as the sole or proper means for presenting the Christian understanding 
of existence. Mythological concepts may by all means still be used, 
but they can be used responsibly only as "symbols" or "ciphers", 
that is, only if they are also constantly <interpreted> in nonmythological 
(or existential) terms.   The statement is often made 
that when Bultmann argues in this way, he "overestimates the intellectual 
stumbling-block which myth is supposed to put in the way of accepting 
the Christian faith". But this statement is completely unconvincing. 
If Bultmann's own definition of myth is strictly adhered 
to (and it is interesting that this is almost never done by those who 
make such pronouncements), the evidence is overwhelming that he does 
not at all exaggerate the extent to which the mythological concepts of 
traditional theology have become incredible and irrelevant. Nor is 
it necessary to look for such evidence in the great urban centers of our 
culture that are admittedly almost entirely secularized and so profoundly 
estranged from the conventional forms in which the gospel has been 
communicated. On the contrary, even in the heart of "the Bible 
belt" itself, as can be attested by any one who is called to work there, 
the industrial and technological revolutions have long been under 
way, together with the corresponding changes in man's picture of himself 
and his world.   In fact, it is in just such a situation 
that the profundity of Bultmann's argument is disclosed. Although 
the theological forms of the past continue to exist in a way they do 
not in a more secularized situation, the striking thing is the rapidity 
with which they are being reduced to a marginal existence. This is 
especially in evidence among the present generation of the suburban middle 
class. Time and again in counseling and teaching, one encounters 
members of this group whose attempts to bring into some kind of unity 
the insubstantial mythologies of their "fundamentalist" heritage 
and the stubborn reality of the modern world are only too painfully obvious.

The same thing is also evidenced by the extreme "culture-Protestantism" 
so often observed to characterize the preaching 
and teaching of the American churches. In the absence of a truly adequate 
conceptuality in which the gospel can be expressed, the unavoidable 
need to demythologize it makes use of whatever resources are at 
hand- and this usually means one or another of the various forms of 
"folk religion" current in the situation. This is not to say that 
the <only> explanation of the present infatuation with Norman Vincent 
Peale's "cult of reassurance" or the other types of a purely 
cultural Christianity is the ever-present need for a demythologized 
gospel. But it is to say that this need is far more important for such 
infatuation than most of the pundits seem to have suspected.

However, even if the latent demand for demythologization is not nearly 
as widespread as we are claiming, at least among the cultured elements 
of the population there tends to be an almost complete indifference 
to the church and its traditional message of sin and grace. To be 
sure, when this is pointed out, a common response among certain churchmen 
is to fulminate about "the little flock" and "the great crowd" 
and to take solace from Paul's castigation of the "wisdom of 
the wise" in the opening chapter of First Corinthians. But can 
we any longer afford the luxury of such smug indigation? Can the church 
risk assuming that the "folly" of men is as dear to God as their 
"wisdom", or, as is also commonly implied, that "the foolishness 
of God" and "the foolishness of men" are simply two ways 
of talking about the same thing? Can we continue to alienate precisely 
those whose gifts we so desperately need and apart from whose co-operation 
our mission in the world must become increasingly precarious?

There is an ancient and venerable tradition in the church (which 
derives, however, from the heritage of the Greeks rather than from 
the Bible) that God is completely independent of his creation and 
so has no need of men for accomplishing his work in the world. by analogy, 
the church also has been regarded as entirely independent of the 
"world" in the sense of requiring nothing from it in order to be 
the church. But, as Scripture everywhere reminds us, God <does> 
have need of his creatures, and the church, <a fortiori>, can ill afford 
to do without the talents with which the world, by God's providence, 
presents it.   And yet this is exactly the risk we run when 
we assume, as we too often do, that we can continue to preach the gospel 
in a form that makes it seem incredible and irrelevant to cultured 
men. Until we translate this gospel into a language that enlightened 
men today can understand, we are depriving ourselves of the very resources 
on which the continued success of our witness most certainly depends.

In arguing in this way, we are obviously taking for granted 
that a demythologized restatement of the kerygma can be achieved; 
and that we firmly believe this will presently become evident when 
we set forth reasons to justify such a conviction. But the main point 
here is that even if such a restatement were <not> possible, the 
demand to demythologize the kerygma would still be unavoidable. 
This is what we mean when we say this demand must be accepted without 
condition. If to be a Christian means to say yes where I otherwise 
say no, or where I do not have the right to say anything at all, then 
my only choice is to refuse to be a Christian. Expressed differently: 
if the price for becoming a faithful follower of Jesus Christ 
is some form of self-destruction, whether of the body or of the mind- 
<sacrificium corporis, sacrificium intellectus>- then there is 
no alternative but that the price remain unpaid.   This must be 
stressed because it is absolutely essential to the argument of this concluding 
chapter. Modern man, as Dietrich Bonhoeffer has told us, has 
"come of age"; and though this process by no means represents 
an unambiguous gain and is, in fact, marked by the estrangement from 
the depths that seems to be the cost of human maturation, it is still 
a positive step forward; and those of us who so richly benefit from 
it should be the last to despise it. In any event, it is an irreversible 
step, and if we are at all honest with ourselves, we will know we 
have no other alternative than to live in the world in which God has 
seen fit to place us.   To say this, of course, is to take up a 
position on one side of a controversy going on now for some two hundred 
years, or, at any rate, since the beginning of the distinctively modern 
period in theological thought. We have aligned ourselves with that 
"liberal" tradition in Protestant Christianity that counts among 
the great names in its history those of Schleiermacher, Ritschl, 
Herrmann, Harnack, and Troeltsch, and more recently, Schweitzer and 
the early Barth and, in part at least, Bultmann. It is to this same 
tradition that most of the creative figures in the last century and 
a half of American theology also belong. For we must number here not 
only the names of Bushnell, Clarke, and Rauschenbusch, not to mention 
those of "the Chicago School" and Macintosh, but those of 
the brothers Niebuhr and (if America may claim him!) Tillich as 
well. Finally, we may also mention the several members of the self-consciously 
"neoliberal" movement that developed at the University 
of Chicago and is heavily indebted philosophically to the creative work 
of Alfred North Whitehead.   What makes this long and diverse 
tradition essentially <one> is that those who have belonged to it 
have been profoundly in earnest about being modern men in a distinctively 
modern world. Although they have also been concerned to stand squarely 
within the tradition of the apostolic church, they have exhibited 
no willingness whatever to sacrifice their modernity to their Christianity. 
They have insisted, rather, on living fully and completely 
within modern culture and, so far from considering this treason to God, 
have looked upon it as the only way they could be faithful to him.

When we say, then, that today, in our situation, the demand for 
demythologization must be accepted without condition, we are simply 
saying that at least this much of the liberal tradition is an enduring 
achievement. However much we may have to criticize liberal theology's 
constructive formulations, the theology we ourselves must strive 
to formulate can only go <beyond> liberalism, not <behind> it.

In affirming this we have already taken the decisive step in breaking 
the deadlock into which Bultmann's attempt to formulate such a 
theology has led. For we have said, in effect, that of the two alternatives 
to his position variously represented by the other participants 
in the demythologizing discussion, only one is really an alternative. 
If the demand for demythologization is unavoidable and so must be 
accepted 
by theology unconditionally, the position of the "right" is 
clearly untenable. Whereas Bultmann's "center" position is structurally 
inconsistent and is therefore indefensible on formal grounds 
alone, the general position of the "right", as represented, say, 
by Karl Barth, involves the rejection or at least qualification of 
the demand for demythologization and so is invalidated on the material 
grounds we have just considered.   It follows, then, provided 
the possibilities have been exhausted, that the only <real> alternative 
is the general viewpoint of the "left", which has been represented 
on the Continent by Fritz Buri and, to some extent at least, 
is found in much that is significant in American and English theology.

In order to make the implications of our position as clear 
as possible, we may develop this argument at greater length.   We 
may show, first, that there cannot possibly be an alternative other 
than the three typically represented by Bultmann, Barth, and Buri. 
To do this, it is sufficient to point out that if the principle in terms 
of which alternatives are to be conceived is such as to exclude more 
than two, then the question of a "third" possibility is a meaningless 
question. Thus, if what is at issue is whether "All ~S 
is ~P", it is indifferent whether "Some ~S is not ~P" 
or "No ~S is ~P", since in either case the judgment in question 
is false. Hence, if what is in question is whether in a given theology 
myth is or is not completely rejected, it is unimportant whether 
only a little bit of myth or a considerable quantity is accepted; 
for, in either event, the first possibility is excluded. Therefore, 
the only conceivable alternatives are those represented, on the one hand, 
by the two at least apparently self-consistent but mutually exclusive 
positions of Buri and Barth and, on the other hand, by the third 
but really pseudo position (analogous to a round square) of Bultmann.

A second point requires more extended comment. It will be recalled 
from the discussion in Section 7 that the position of the "right", 
as represented by Barth, rests on the following thesis: The 
only tenable alternative to Bultmann's position is a theology that 
(1) rejects or at least qualifies his unconditioned demand for demythologization 
and existential interpretation; (2) accepts instead a 
special biblical hermeneutics or method of interpretation; and (3) 
in so doing, frees itself to give appropriate emphasis to the event Jesus 
Christ by means of statements that, from Bultmann's point of 
view, are mythological.

ONE HUNDRED years ago there existed in England the Association 
for the Promotion of the Unity of Christendom. Representing 
as it did the efforts of only unauthorized individuals of the Roman 
and Anglican Churches, and urging a communion of prayer unacceptable 
to Rome, this association produced little fruit, and, in fact, was 
condemned by the Holy Office in 1864.   Now again in 1961, in 
England, there is perhaps nothing in the religious sphere so popularly 
discussed as Christian unity. The Church Unity Octave, January 
18-25, was enthusiastically devoted to prayer and discussion by the various 
churches. Many people seem hopeful, yet it is difficult to predict 
whether or not there will be any more real attainment of Christian 
unity in 1961 than there was in 1861. But it must be readily seen 
that the religious picture in England has so greatly changed during these 
hundred years as to engender hope, at least on the Catholic side. 
For the "tide is well on the turn", as the London Catholic weekly 
<Universe> has written.   I came to England last summer to 
do research on the unpublished letters of Cardinal Newman. As an 
American Catholic of Irish ancestry, I came with certain preconceptions 
and expectations; being intellectually influenced by Newman 
and the general 19th-century literature of England, I knew only a 
Protestant-dominated 
country. Since arriving here, however, I have formed 
a far different religious picture of present-day England. In representing 
part of this new picture, I will be recounting some of my 
own personal experiences, reactions and judgments; but my primary aim 
is to transcribe what Englishmen themselves are saying and writing 
and implying about the Roman and Anglican Churches and about the 
present religious 
state of England.   Since the Protestant clergy for the 
most part wear gray or some variant from the wholly black suit, my Roman 
collar and black garb usually identify me in England as a Roman 
Catholic cleric. In any case, I have always been treated with the 
utmost courtesy by Englishmen, even in Devonshire and Cornwall, where 
anti-Catholic feeling has supposedly existed the strongest and longest.

Nowhere have I seen public expression of anti-Catholicism. 
On my first Guy Fawkes Day here, I found Catholics as well 
as non-Catholics celebrating with the traditional fireworks and bonfires, 
and was told that most Englishmen either do not know or are not 
concerned with the historical significance of the day. A Birmingham 
newspaper printed in a column for children an article entitled "The 
True Story of Guy Fawkes", which began:   "When you 
pile your 
"guy" on the bonfire tomorrow night, I wonder how much of the 
true story of Guy Fawkes you will remember? In the 355 years since 
the first Guy Fawkes Night, much of the story has been forgotten, 
so here is a reminder". The article proceeded to give an inaccurate 
account of a catholic plot to kill King James /1,. ##

IN 
SPITE OF the increase in numbers and prestige brought about by the 
conversions of Newman and other Tractarians of the 1840's and 1850's, 
the Catholic segment of England one hundred years ago was a very 
small one (four per cent, or 800,000) which did not enjoy a gracious 
hearing from the general public. The return of the Catholic hierarchy 
in 1850 was looked upon with indignant disapprobation and, in fact, 
was charged with being a gesture of disloyalty. In 1864 Newman professedly 
had to write his <Apologia> with his keenest feelings in 
order to be believed and to command a fair hearing from English readers.

Now, in 1961, the Catholic population of England is still 
quite small (ten per cent, or 5 million); yet it represents a very 
considerable percentage of the churchgoing population. A Protestant 
woman marveled to me over the large crowds going in and out of the Birmingham 
Oratory (Catholic) Church on Sunday mornings. She found 
this a marvel because, as she said, only six per cent of English people 
are churchgoers. She may not have been exact on this number, but 
others here feel quite certain that the percentage would be less than 
ten. From many sides come remarks that Protestant churches are badly 
attended and the large medieval cathedrals look all but empty during 
services. A Catholic priest recently recounted how in the chapel of 
a large city university, following Anglican evensong, at which there 
was a congregation of twelve, he celebrated Mass before more than a 
hundred.   The Protestants themselves are the first to admit the 
great falling off in effective membership in their churches. According 
to a newspaper report of the 1961 statistics of the Church of England, 
the "total of confirmed members is 9,748,000, but only 2,887,671 
are registered on the parochial church rolls", and "over 27 million 
people in England are baptized into the Church of England, but 
roughly only a tenth of them continue". An amazing article in the 
<Manchester Guardian> of last November, entitled "Fate of Redundant 
Churches", states than an Archbishops' Commission "reported 
last month that in the Church of England alone there are 790 
churches which are redundant now, or will be in 20 years' time. A further 
260 Anglican churches have been demolished since 1948". And 
in the last five years, the "Methodist chapel committee has 
authorized 
the demolition or, more often, the sale of 764 chapels". Most of 
these former churches are now used as warehouses, but "neither Anglicans 
nor 
Nonconformists object to selling churches to Roman Catholics", 
and have done so.   While it must be said that these same 
Protestants have built some new churches during this period, and that 
religious population shifts have emptied churches, a principal reason 
for this phenomenon of redundancy is that fewer Protestants are 
going to church. It should be admitted, too, that there is a good 
percentage of lapsed or nonchurchgoing Catholics (one paper writes 50 
per cent). Still, it is clear from such reports, and apparently clear 
from the remarks of many people, that Protestants are decreasing and 
Catholics increasing.   An Anglican clergyman in Oxford sadly 
but frankly acknowledged to me that this is true. A century ago, 
Newman saw that liberalism (what we now might call secularism) would 
gradually but definitely make its mark on English Protestantism, and 
that even high Anglicanism would someday no longer be a "serviceable 
breakwater against doctrinal errors more fundamental than its own". 
That day is perhaps today, 1961, and it seems no longer very meaningful 
to call England a "Protestant country". One of the ironies 
of the present crusade for Christian unity is that there are not, relatively 
speaking, many real Christians to unite.   Many English 
Catholics are proud of their Catholicism and know that they are 
in a new ascendancy. The London <Universe> devoted its centenary 
issue 
last December 8 to mapping out various aspects of Catholic progress 
during the last one hundred years. With traditional nationalistic spirit, 
some Englishmen claim that English Catholicism is Catholicism 
at its best. I have found myself saying with other foreigners here 
that English Catholics <are> good Catholics. It has been my experience 
to find as many men as women in church, and to hear almost everyone 
in church congregations reciting the Latin prayers and responses 
at Mass.   They hope, of course, to reclaim the non-Catholic 
population to the Catholic faith, and at every Sunday Benediction 
they recite by heart the "Prayer for England":   "O Blessed 
Virgin Mary, Mother of God and our most gentle queen and mother, 
look down in mercy upon England, thy "dowry", and upon us 
all who greatly hope and trust in thee **h. Intercede for our separated 
brethren, that with us in the one true fold they may be united to the 
chief Shepherd, the vicar of thy Son **h". A hymn often to be 
heard in Catholic churches is "Faith of our Fathers", which glories 
in England's ancient faith that endured persecution, and which 
proclaims: "Faith of our Fathers: Mary's prayers/Shall win 
our country back to thee". The English saints are widely venerated, 
quite naturally, and now there is great hope that the Forty Martyrs 
and Cardinal Newman will soon be canonized.   Because they 
have kept the faith of their medieval fathers, English Catholics have 
always strongly resented the charge of being "un-English". I 
have not seen this charge made during my stay here, but apparently it 
is still in the air. For example, a writer in a recent number of <The 
Queen> hyperbolically states that "of the myriad imprecations the 
only one which the English Catholics really resent is the suggestion 
that they are 'un-English'". In this connection, it has been 
observed that the increasing number of Irish Catholics, priests and 
laity, in England, while certainly seen as good for Catholicism, 
is nevertheless a source of embarrassment for some of the more nationalistic 
English Catholics, especially when these Irishmen offer to remind 
their Christian brethren of this good. ##

ONE OF THE 
more noteworthy changes that have taken place since the mid-19th century 
is the situation of Catholics at Oxford and Cambridge Universities. 
At Oxford one hundred years ago there were very few Catholics, 
partly because religious tests were removed only in 1854. Moreover, 
for those few there was almost no ecclesiastical representation in the 
city to care for their religious needs. Now, not only are there considerably 
more laity as students and professors at Oxford, but there 
are also numerous houses of religious orders existing in respectable 
and friendly relations with the non-Catholic members of the University. 
Some Catholic priests lecture there; Catholic seminarians attend 
tutorials and row on the Cherwell with non-Catholic students.

Further evidence that Roman Catholicism enjoys a more favorable 
position today than in 1861 is the respectful attention given to it 
in the mass media of England. The general tone of articles appearing 
in such important newspapers as the Manchester <Guardian> and the 
Sunday <Observer> implies a kindly recognition that the Catholic 
Church is now at least of equal stature in England with the Protestant 
churches. On successive Sundays during October, 1960, Paul Ferris 
(a non-Catholic) wrote articles in the <Observer> depicting 
clergymen of the Church of England, the Church of Rome and the Nonconformist 
Church. The Catholic priest, though somewhat superficially 
drawn, easily came out the best. There were many letters of strong 
protest against the portrait of the Anglican clergyman, who was indeed 
portrayed as a man not particularly concerned with religious matters 
and without really very much to do as clergyman. Such a series of 
articles was certainly never printed in the public press of mid-Victorian 
England. There was so much interest shown in this present-day 
venture that it was continued on B&B&C&, where comments were 
equally made by an Anglican parson, a Free Church minister and a Catholic 
priest.   Catholic priests have frequently appeared on 
television programs, sometimes discussing the Christian faith on an equal 
footing with Protestant clergymen. A notable example of this was 
the discussion of Christian unity by the Catholic Archbishop of Liverpool, 
Dr& Heenan, and the Anglican Archbishop of York, Dr& 
Ramsey, recently appointed Archbishop of Canterbury. The good 
feeling which exists between these two important church figures is now 
well known in England. The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass with commentary 
has been televised several times in recent months. And it was 
interesting to observe that B&B&C&'s television film on Christmas 
Eve was <The Bells of St& Mary's>.   Of course, 
the crowning event that has dramatically upset the traditional pattern 
of English religious history was the friendly visit paid by Dr& 
Fisher, then Anglican Archbishop of Canterbury, to the Vatican 
last December. It was the first time an English Primate has done 
this since the 14th century. English Catholics reacted to this event 
with moderate but real hope.   Almost daily something is reported 
which feeds this Catholic hope in England: statistics of the increasing 
numbers of converts and Irish Catholic immigrants; news of 
a Protestant minister in Leamington who has offered to allow a Catholic 
priest to preach from his pulpit; a report that a Catholic nun 
had been requested to teach in a non-Catholic secondary school during 
the sickness of one of its masters; the startling statement in a 
respectable periodical that "Catholics, if the present system is still 
in operation, will constitute almost one-third of the House of Lords 
in the next generation"; a report that 200 Protestant clergymen 
and laity attended a votive Mass offered for Christian unity at 
a Catholic church in Slough during the Church Unity Octave. 
The death of a man is unique, and yet it is universal. The straight 
line would symbolize its uniqueness, the circle its universality. But 
how can one figure symbolize both?   Christianity declares that 
in the life and death of Jesus Christ the unique and the universal 
concur. Perhaps no church father saw this concurrence of the unique 
and the universal as clearly, or formulated it as precisely, as Irenaeus. 
To be the Savior and the Lord, Jesus Christ has to be a historical 
individual with a biography all his own; he dare not be a cosmic 
aeon that swoops to earth for a while but never identifies itself 
with man's history. Yet this utterly individual historical person 
must also contain within himself the common history of mankind. His 
history is his alone, yet each man must recognize his own history in 
it. His death is his alone, yet each man can see his own death in the 
crucifixion of Jesus. Each man can identify himself with the history 
and the death of Jesus Christ because Jesus Christ has identified 
himself with human history and human death, coming as the head of a 
new humanity. Not a circle, then, nor a straight line, but a spiral 
represents the shape of death as Irenaeus sees it; for a spiral has 
motion as well as recurrence. As represented by a spiral, history may, 
in some sense, be said to repeat itself; yet each historical event 
remains unique. Christ is both unique and universal.   The first 
turn of the spiral is the primeval history of humanity in Adam. As 
Origen interprets the end of history on the basis of its beginning, 
so Irenaeus portrays the story of Adam on the basis of the story of 
Christ. "Whence, then, comes the substance of the first man? From 
God's Will and Wisdom, and from virgin earth. For 'God had 
not rained', says the Scripture, before man was made, 'and there 
was no man to till the earth'. From this earth, then, while it was 
still virgin God took dust and fashioned the man, the beginning of humanity". 
Irenaeus does not regard Adam and Eve merely as private 
individuals, but as universal human beings, who were and are all of humanity. 
Adam and Eve were perfect, not in the sense that they possessed 
perfection, but in the sense that they were capable of development 
toward perfection. They were, in fact, children. Irenaeus does not 
claim pre-existence for the human soul; therefore there is no need for 
him, as there is for Origen, to identify existence itself with the 
fall. Existence is created and willed by God and is not the consequence 
of a pre-existent rebellion or of a cosmic descent from eternity 
into history. Historical existence is a created good.   The biblical 
symbol for this affirmation is expressed in the words: "So 
God created man in his own image; in the similitude of God he created 
him". There are some passages in the writings of Irenaeus where 
the image of God and the similitude are sharply distinguished, so 
most notably in the statement: "If the [Holy] Spirit is absent 
from the soul, such a man is indeed of an animal nature; and, being 
left carnal, he will be an imperfect being, possessing the image 
[of 
God] in his formation, but not receiving the similitude [of God] 
through the Spirit". Thus the image of God is that which makes 
a man a man and not an oyster; the similitude of God, by contrast, 
is that which makes a man a child of God and not merely a rational creature. 
Recent research on Irenaeus, however, makes it evident that 
he does not consistently maintain this distinction. He does not mean 
to say that Adam lost the similitude of God and his immortality through 
the fall; for he was created not exactly immortal, nor yet exactly 
mortal, but capable of immortality as well as of mortality. 
Therefore Irenaeus describes man's creation as follows: 
"So that the man should not have thoughts of grandeur, and become lifted 
up, as if he had no lord, because of the dominion that had been 
given to him, and the freedom, fall into sin against God his Creator, 
overstepping his bounds, and take up an attitude of self-conceited arrogance 
towards God, a law was given him by God, that he might know 
that he had for lord the lord of all. And He laid down for him certain 
conditions: so that, if he kept the command of God, then he would 
always remain as he was, that is, immortal; but if he did not, he 
would become mortal, melting into earth, whence his frame had been taken". 
These conditions man did not keep, and thus he became mortal; 
yet he did not stop being human as a result. There is no justification 
for systematizing the random statements of Irenaeus about the image 
of God beyond this, nor for reading into his imprecise usage the 
later theological distinction between the image of God (humanity) and 
the similitude of God (immortality).   Man was created with the 
capacity for immortality, but the devil's promise of immortality 
in exchange for disobedience cost Adam his immortality. He was, in the 
words of Irenaeus, "beguiled by another under the pretext of immortality". 
The true way to immortality lay through obedience, but man 
did not believe this.   "Eve was disobedient; for she did 
not obey when as yet she was a virgin. And even as she, having indeed 
a husband, Adam, but being nevertheless as yet a virgin **h, having 
become disobedient, was made the cause of death, both to herself and 
to the entire human race; so also did Mary, having a man betrothed 
[to her], and being nevertheless a virgin, by yielding obedience, become 
the cause of salvation, both to herself and the whole human race". 
Because he interprets the primitive state of man as one of mere 
potentiality or capacity and believes that Adam and Eve were created 
as children, Irenaeus often seems inclined to extenuate their disobedience 
as being "due, no doubt, to carelessness, but still wicked". 
His interpretation of the beginning on the basis of the end prompts 
him to draw these parallels between the Virgin Eve and the Virgin 
Mary. That parallelism affects his picture of man's disobedience too; 
for as it was Christ, the Word of God, who came to rescue man, 
so it was disobedience to the word of God in the beginning that brought 
death into the world, and all our woe.   With this act of disobedience, 
and not with the inception of his individual existence, man 
began the downward circuit on the spiral of history, descending from 
the created capacity for immortality to an inescapable mortality. At 
the nadir of that circuit is death. "Along with the fruit they did 
also fall under the power of death, because they did eat in disobedience; 
and disobedience to God entails death. Wherefore, as they became 
forfeit to death, from that [moment] they were handed over to it". 
This leads Irenaeus to the somewhat startling notion that Adam 
and Eve died on the same day that they disobeyed, namely, on a Friday, 
as a parallel to the death of Christ on Good Friday; he sees 
a parallel also to the Jewish day of preparation for the Sabbath. In 
any case, though they had been promised immortality if they ate of 
the tree, they obtained mortality instead. The wages of sin is death. 
Man's life, originally shaped for immortality and for communion with 
God, must now be conformed to the shape of death.   Nevertheless, 
even at the nadir of the circuit the spiral of history belongs 
to God, and he still rules. Even death, therefore, has a providential 
as well as a punitive function.   "Wherefore also He [God] 
drove him [man] out of Paradise, and removed him far from the tree 
of life, not because He envied him the tree of life, as some venture 
to assert, but because He pitied him, [and did not desire] that 
he should continue a sinner for ever, nor that the sin which surrounded 
him should be immortal, and evil interminable and irremediable. But 
He set a bound to his [state of] sin, by interposing death, and thus 
causing sin to cease, putting an end to it by the dissolution of the 
flesh, which should take place in the earth, so that man, ceasing at 
length to live in sin, and dying to it, might live to God". This 
idea, which occurs in both Tatian and Cyprian, fits especially well 
into the scheme of Irenaeus' theology; for it prepares the way for 
the passage from life through death to life that is achieved in Christ. 
As man can live only by dying, so it was only by his dying that 
Christ could bring many to life.   It is probably fair to say 
that the idea of death is more profound in Irenaeus than the idea of 
sin is. This applies to his picture of Adam. It is borne out also 
by the absence of any developed theory about how sin passes from one generation 
to the next. It becomes most evident in his description of 
Christ as the second Adam, who does indeed come to destroy sin, but 
whose work culminates in the achievement of immortality. This emphasis 
upon death rather than sin as man's fundamental problem Irenaeus 
shares with many early theologians, especially the Greek-speaking ones. 
They speak of the work of Christ as the bestowal of incorruptibility, 
which can mean (though it does not have to mean) deliverance from 
time and history.   Death reminds man of his sin, but it reminds 
him also of his transience. It represents a punishment that he knows 
he deserves, but it also symbolizes most dramatically that he lives 
his life within the process of time. These two aspects of death cannot 
be successfully separated, but they dare not be confused or identified. 
The repeated efforts in Christian history to describe death as 
altogether the consequence of human sin show that these two aspects of 
death cannot be separated. Such efforts almost always find themselves 
compelled to ask whether Adam was created capable of growing old and 
then older and then still older, in short, whether Adam's life was 
intended to be part of the process of time. If it was, then it must 
have been God's intention to translate him at a certain point from 
time to eternity. One night, so some of these theories run, Adam would 
have fallen asleep, much as he fell asleep for the creation of Eve; 
and thus he would have been carried over into the life eternal. The 
embarrassment of these theories over the naturalness of death is an 
illustration of the thesis that death cannot be only a punishment, for 
some termination seems necessary in a life that is lived within the 
natural order of time and change.   On the other hand, Christian 
faith knows that death is more than the natural termination of temporal 
existence. It is the wages of sin, and its sting is the law. 
If 
this aspect of death as punishment is not distinguished from the idea 
of death as natural termination, the conclusion seems inevitable that 
temporal existence itself is a form of punishment rather than the state 
into which man is put by the will of the Creator. This seems to have 
been the conclusion to which Origen was forced. If death receives 
more than its share of attention from the theologian and if sin receives 
less than its share, the gift of the life eternal through Christ 
begins to look like the divinely appointed means of rescue from temporal, 
i&e&, created, existence. Such an interpretation of death radically 
alters the Christian view of creation; for it teaches salvation 
from, not salvation in, time and history. Because Christianity 
teaches not only salvation in history, but salvation by the history of 
Christ, such an interpretation of death would require a drastic revision 
of the Christian understanding of the work of Christ.

Furthermore, as an encouragement to revisionist thinking, it manifestly 
is fair to admit that any fraternity has a constitutional right 
to refuse to accept persons it dislikes. The Unitarian clergy were 
an exclusive club of cultivated gentlemen- as the term was then understood 
in the Back Bay- and Parker was definitely not a gentleman, 
either in theology or in manners. Ezra Stiles Gannett, an honorable 
representative of the sanhedrin, addressed himself frankly to the 
issue in 1845, insisting that Parker should not be persecuted or calumniated 
and that in this republic no power to restrain him by force 
could exist. Even so, Gannett judiciously argued, the Association could 
legitimately decide that Parker "should not be encouraged nor 
assisted in diffusing his opinions by those who differ from him in regard 
to their correctness". We today are not entitled to excoriate 
honest men who believed Parker to be downright pernicious and who 
barred their pulpits against his demand to poison the minds of their 
congregations. 
One can even argue- though this is a delicate matter- 
that every justification existed for their returning the Public Lecture 
to the First Church, and so to suppress it, rather than let Parker 
use it as a sounding board for his propaganda when his turn should 
come to occupy it. Finally, it did seem clear as day to these clergymen, 
as Gannett's son explained in the biography of his father, 
they had always contended for the propriety of their claim to the title 
of Christians. Their demand against the Calvinist Orthodoxy for 
intellectual liberty had never meant that they would follow "free inquiry" 
to the extreme of proclaiming Christianity a "natural" religion.

Grant all this- still, when modern Unitarianism and 
the Harvard Divinity School recall with humorous affection the insults 
Parker lavished upon them, or else argue that after all Parker 
received the treatment he invited, they betray an uneasy conscience. 
Whenever New England liberalism is reminded of the dramatic confrontation 
of Parker and the fraternity on January 23, 1843- while it 
may defend the privilege of Chandler Robbins to demand that Parker 
leave the Association, while it may plead that Dr& N& L& Frothingham 
had every warrant for stating, "The difference between Trinitarians 
and Unitarians is a difference in Christianity; the difference 
between Mr& Parker and the Association is a difference 
between no Christianity and Christianity"- despite these supposed 
conclusive assurances, the modern liberal heaves repeatedly a sigh 
of relief, of positive thanksgiving, that the Association never quite 
brought itself officially to expel Parker. Had it done so, the blot 
on its escutcheon would have remained indelible, nor could the Harvard 
Divinity School assemble today to honor Parker's insurgence other 
than by getting down on its collective knees and crying "peccavi".

Happily for posterity, then, the Boston Association did 
not actually command Parker to leave the room, though it came too close 
for comfort to what would have been an unforgivable brutality. Fortunately, 
the honor of the denomination can attest that Cyrus Bartol 
defended Parker's sincerity, as did also Gannett and Chandler 
Robbins; whereupon Parker broke down into convulsions of weeping and 
rushed out of the room, though not out of the Fellowship. In the 
hall, after adjournment, Dr& Frothingham took him warmly by the 
hand 
and requested Parker to visit him- whereupon our burly Theodore 
again burst into tears.   All this near tragedy, which to us borders 
on comedy, enables us to tell the story over and over again, always 
warming ourselves with a glow of complacency. It was indeed a near 
thing, but somehow the inherent decency of New England (which we inherit) 
did triumph. Parker was never excommunicated. To the extent 
that he was ostracized or even reviled, we solace ourselves by saying 
he asked for it. Yet, even after all these stratagems, the conscience 
of Christian liberality is still not laid to rest, any more than is 
the conscience of Harvard University for having done the abject penance 
for its rejection of Ralph Waldo Emerson's The Divinity School 
Address of naming its hall of philosophy after him. In both cases 
the stubborn fact remains: liberalism gave birth to two brilliant 
apostates, both legitimate offspring of its loins, and when brought 
to the test, it behaved shabbily. Suppose they both had ventured into 
realms which their colleagues thought infidel: is this the way gentlemen 
settle frank differences of opinion? Is it after all possible 
that no matter how the liberals trumpet their confidence in human dignity 
they are exposed to a contagion of fear more insidious than any 
conservative has ever to worry about?   However, there is a crucial 
difference between the two histories. Emerson evaded the problem 
by shoving it aside, or rather by leaving it behind him: he walked 
out of the Unitarian communion, so that it could lick the wound of his 
departure, preserve its self-respect and eventually accord him pious 
veneration. Parker insisted upon <not> resigning, even when the majority 
wanted him to depart, upon daring the Fellowship to throw him 
out. Hence he was in his lifetime, as is the memory of him afterwards, 
a canker within the liberal sensitivity. He still points an accusing 
finger at all of us, telling us we have neither the courage to support 
him nor the energy to cut his throat.   Actually, the dispute 
between Parker and the society of his time, both ecclesiastical and 
social, was a real one, a bitter one. It cannot be smoothed over by 
now cherishing his sarcasms as delightful bits of self-deprecation or 
by solemnly calling for a reconsideration of the justice of the objections 
to him. The fact is incontestable: that liberal world of Unitarian 
Boston <was> narrow-minded, intellectually sterile, smug, afraid 
of the logical consequences of its own mild ventures into iconoclasm, 
and quite prepared to resort to hysterical repressions when its brittle 
foundations were threatened. Parker, along with Garrison and 
Charles Sumner, showed a magnificent moral bravery when facing mobs 
mobilized in defense of the Mexican War and slavery. Nevertheless, 
we can find reasons for respecting even the bigotry of the populace; 
their passions were genuine, and the division between them and the abolitionists 
is clear-cut. But Parker as the ultra-liberal minister within 
the pale of a church which had proclaimed itself the repository 
of liberality poses a different problem, which is not to be resolved by 
holding him up as the champion of freedom. Even though his theological 
theses have become, to us, commonplaces, the fundamental interrogation 
he phrased is very much with us. It has been endlessly rephrased, 
but I may here put it thus: at what point do the tolerant find themselves 
obliged to become intolerant? And then, as they become aware 
that they have reached the end of their patience, what do they, to 
their dismay, learn for the first time about themselves?   There 
can be no doubt, the Boston of that era could be exquisitely cruel 
in enforcing its canons of behavior. The gentle Channing, revered 
by all Bostonians, orthodox or Unitarian, wrote to a friend in Louisville 
that among its many virtues Boston did not abound in a tolerant 
spirit, that the yoke of opinion crushed individuality of judgment and 
action: "No city in the world is governed so little by a police, 
and so much by mutual inspections and what is called public sentiment. 
We stand more in awe of one another than most people. Opinion is 
less individual or runs more into masses, and often rules with a rod 
of iron". Even more poignantly, and with the insight of a genius, 
Channing added- remember, this is Channing, not Parker!- 
that should a minister in Boston trust himself to his heart, should 
he "speak without book, and consequently break some law of speech, 
or be hurried into some daring hyperbole, he should find little mercy".

Channing wrote this- in a letter! I think it fair to 
say that he never quite reached such candor in his sermons. But Theodore 
Parker, commencing his mission to the world-at-large, disguised 
as the minister of a "twenty-eighth Congregational Church" which 
bore no resemblance to the Congregational polities descended from the 
founders (among which were still the Unitarian churches), made explicit 
from the beginning that the conflict between him and the Hunkerish 
society was not something which could be evaporated into a genteel 
difference about clerical decorum. Because he spoke openly with what 
Channing had prophesied someone might- with daring hyperbole- Parker 
vindicated Channing's further prophecy that he who committed 
this infraction of taste would promptly discover how little mercy liberals 
were disposed to allow to libertarians who appeared to them libertines. 
An institutionalized liberalism proved itself fundamentally an 
institution, and only within those defined limits a license. 
By reminding ourselves of these factors in the situation, we should, 
I am sure, come to a fresh realization, however painful it be, that the 
battle between Parker and his neighbors was fought in earnest. He 
arraigned the citizens in language of so little courtesy that they had 
to respond with, at the least, resentment. What otherwise could "the 
lawyer, doctor, minister, the men of science and letters" do when 
told that they had "become the cherubim and seraphim and the three 
archangels who stood before the golden throne of the merchant, and continually 
cried, 'Holy, holy, holy is the Almighty 
Dollar'"? 
Nor, when we recollect how sensitive were the emotions of the old Puritan 
stock in regard to the recent tides of immigration, should we be 
astonished that their thin lips were compressed into a white line of 
rage as Parker snarled at them thus: "Talk about the Catholics 
voting as the bishop tells! reproach the Catholics for it! You 
and I do the same thing. There are a great many bishops who have never 
had a cross on their bosom, nor a mitre on their head, who appeal not 
to the authority of the Pope at Rome, but to the Almighty Dollar, 
a pope much nearer home. Boston has been controlled by a few capitalists, 
lawyers and other managers, who told the editors what to say and 
the preachers what to think". This was war. Parker meant business. 
And he took repeated care to let his colleagues know that he intended 
them: "Even the Unitarian churches have caught the malaria, 
and are worse than those who deceived them"- which implied that they 
were very bad indeed. It was "<Duty>" he said that his parents 
had given him as a rule- beyond even the love that suffused his 
being and the sense of humor with which he was largely supplied- and 
it was duty he would perform, though it cost him acute pain and exhausted 
him by the age of fifty. Parker could weep- and he wept astonishingly 
often and on the slightest provocation- but the psychology of 
those tears was entirely compatible with a remorseless readiness to 
massacre his opponents. "If it gave me pleasure to say hard things", 
he wrote, "I would shut up forever". We have to tell ourselves 
that when Parker spoke in this vein, he believed what he said, because 
he could continue, "But the TRUTH, which cost me bitter 
tears to say, I must speak, though it cost other tears hotter than 
fire". Because he copiously shed his own tears, and yielded himself 
up as a living sacrifice to the impersonalized conscience of New England, 
he was not disturbed by the havoc he worked in other people's 
consciences.   Our endeavor to capture even a faint sense of how 
strenuous was the fight is muffled by our indifference to the very 
issue which in the Boston of 1848 seemed to be the central hope of its 
Christian survival, that of the literal, factual historicity of the 
miracles as reported in the Four Gospels. It is idle to ask why we 
are no longer disturbed if somebody, professing the deepest piety, 
decides anew 
that it is of no importance whether or not Christ transformed the 
water into wine at eleven A& M& on the third of August, A& 
D& 32. We have no answer as to why we are not alarmed. So we are 
the more prepared to give Parker the credit for having taken the right 
side in an unnecessary controversy, to salute his courage, and to pass 
on, happily forgetting both him and the entire episode. We have not 
the leisure, or the patience, or the skill, to comprehend what was working 
in the mind and heart of a then recent graduate from the Harvard 
Divinity School who would muster the audacity to contradict his most 
formidable instructor, the majesterial Andrews Norton, by saying 
that, while he believed Jesus "like other religious teachers", worked 
miracles, "I see not how a miracle proves a doctrine".

I have, within the past fifty years, come out of all uncertainty 
into a faith which is a dominating conviction of the Truth and about 
which I have not a shadow of doubt. It has been my lot all through 
life to associate with eminent scientists and at times to discuss with 
them the deepest and most vital of all questions, the nature of the 
hope of a life beyond this. I have also constantly engaged in scientific 
work and am fully aware of the value of opinions formed in science 
as well as in the religions in the world. In an amateurish, yet in 
a very real sense, I have followed the developments of archaeology, geology, 
astronomy, herpetology, and mycology with a hearty appreciation 
of the advances being made in these fields.   At one time I became 
disturbed in the faith in which I had grown up by the apparent 
inroads being made upon both Old and New Testaments by a "Higher 
Criticism" of the Bible, to refute which I felt the need of a better 
knowledge of Hebrew and of archaeology, for it seemed to me that 
to pull out some of the props of our faith was to weaken the entire structure.

Doubts thus inculcated left me floundering for a while 
and, like some higher critical friends, trying to continue to use the 
Bible as the Word of God while at the same time holding it to have 
been subjected to a vast number of redactions and interpolations: 
attempting to bridge the chasm between an older, reverent, Bible-loving 
generation and a critical, doubting, Bible-emancipated race. Although 
still aware of a great light and glow of warmth in the Book, I 
stood outside shivering in the cold.   In one thing the higher 
critics, like the modernists, however, overreached themselves, in claiming 
that the Gospel of John was not written in John's time but 
well after the first century, perhaps as late as 150 A&D&. Now, 
if any part of the Bible is assuredly the very Word of God speaking 
through His servant, it is John's Gospel. To ask me to believe 
that so inexpressibly marvelous a book was written long after all the 
events by some admiring follower, and was not inspired directly by the 
Spirit of God, is asking me to accept a miracle far greater than any 
of those recorded in the Bible. Here I took my leave of my learned 
friends to step out on another path, to which we might give the modern 
name of Pragmatism, or the thing that works. Test it, try it, and 
if it works, accept it as a guiding principle.   So, I put my 
Bible to the practical test of noting what it says about itself, and 
then tested it to see how it worked. As a short, possibly not the best 
method, I looked up "Word" in the Concordance and noted that 
the Bible claims from Genesis 1 to Revelation 22 to be God's personal 
message to man. The next traditional step then was to accept it 
as the authoritative textbook of the Christian faith just as one would 
accept a treatise on any earthly "science", and I submitted to 
its conditions according to Christ's invitation and promise that, 
<"If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether 
it be of God, or whether I speak of myself"> (John 7:17).

The outcome of such an experiment has been in due time the acceptance 
of the Bible as the Word of God inspired in a sense utterly 
different from any merely human book, and with it the acceptance of 
our Lord Jesus Christ as the only begotten Son of God, Son of Man 
by the Virgin Mary, the Saviour of the world.   I believe, 
therefore, that we are without exception sinners, by nature alienated 
from God, and that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, came to earth, 
the representative Head of a new race, to die upon the cross and pay 
the penalty of the sin of the world, and that he who thus receives Christ 
as his personal Saviour is "born again" spiritually, with new 
privileges, appetites, and affections, destined to live and grow in 
His likeness forever. Nor can any man save himself by good works or 
by a commendable "moral life", although such works are the natural 
fruits and evidences of a saving faith already received and naturally 
expressing itself through such avenues.   I now ever look for 
Christ acording to His promises and those of the Old Testament as 
well, to appear again in glory to put away all sin and to reign in righteousness 
over the whole earth.   To state fully what the Bible 
means as my daily spiritual food is as intimate and difficult as to 
formulate the reasons for loving my nearest and dearest relatives and 
friends. The Bible is as obviously and truly food for the spirit as 
bread is food for the body. Again, as faith reveals God my Father 
and Christ my Saviour, I follow without question where He leads me 
daily by His Spirit of love, wisdom, power and prayer. I place His 
precepts and His leadings above every seeming probability, dismissing 
cherished convictions and holding the wisdom of man as folly when opposed 
to Him. I discern no limits to a faith vested in God and Christ, 
who is the sum of all wisdom and knowledge, and daring to trust Him 
even though called to stand alone before the world.   Our Lord's 
invitation with its implied promise to all is, "Come and see".

I STOOD at the bedside of my patient one day and beheld 
a very sick man in terrible pain. As I ministered to his needs, 
I noticed that his face was radiant in spite of his suffering and I 
learned that he was trusting not only in the skill of his doctor and 
nurse but also the Lord.   In his heart he had that peace of which 
the Lord spoke when He said, <"Peace I leave with you, my peace 
I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let 
not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid">.   What 
a joy to realize that we, too, can claim this promise tendered by 
the Lord during His earthly ministry to a group of men who were very 
dear to Him. He was about to leave them, to depart from this world, 
and return to His Father in Heaven. Before He left them He promised 
that His peace would be their portion to abide in their hearts 
and minds.   I praise God for the privilege of being a nurse who 
has that peace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It makes 
my work a great deal easier to be able to pray for the Lord's guidance 
while ministering to the physical needs of my patients.   How 
often have I looked to Jesus when entering the sick room, asking 
for His presence and help in my professional duties as I give my talents 
not only as the world giveth but as one who loves the Saviour and 
His creatures.   Looking unto God, the Prophet Isaiah wrote 
these blessed words almost three thousand years ago: <"Thou wilt 
keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee: because 
he trusteth in thee">.   Are you longing for peace in your heart? 
Such a calm and assuring peace can be yours. As only a member 
of the family can share in the innermost joys of the family, likewise 
one must belong to the family of God in order to receive the benefits 
that are promised to those who are His own.   Perhaps you are 
not His child. Perhaps you do not know if you belong to Him. You 
may know that you are in God's family and be just as sure of it as 
you are that you belong to the family of your earthly father. 
<"God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that 
whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life",> 
and <"as many as received him, to them gave he power to become 
the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name">.

It is to those who believe on His name and belong to Him that 
He gives His peace; not that empty peace the world offers, but a deep, 
abiding peace which nothing can destroy.   Why not open your 
heart to the Lord Jesus Christ now, accept Him as your Saviour 
and 
let Him fill you with peace that only He can give.   Then, 
with the hymn writer of old, you can say:   "I am resting today 
in His wonderful peace,   Resting sweetly in Jesus' control.

I am kept from all danger by night and by day,   And 
His glory is flooding my soul".

SATELLITES, SPUTNIKS, ROCKETS, 
BALLOONS; what next? Our necks are stiff from gazing at 
the wonders of outer space, which have captured the imagination of the 
American public. Cape Canaveral's achievements thunder forth from 
the radio, television, and newspaper.   While we are filling 
outer space with scientific successes, for many the "inner" space 
of their soul is an aching void.   Proof? An average of 50 suicides 
are reported in America each day! One out of every three or 
four marriages end in divorce! Over $200,000,000 is paid yearly to 
the 80,000 full-time fortune-tellers in the United States by fearful 
mankind who want to "know" what the future holds! Delinquency, 
juvenile and adult, is at an all-time high! Further proof? Read 
your daily newspaper!   Unfortunately, in our rush to beat 
the Russians, we have forgotten these truth-packed words of Jesus Christ: 
<"What shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world> 
[that includes outer space], <and lose his own soul? Or what 
shall a man give in exchange for his soul"?> (Mark 8:36, 37).

Gaining outer space and losing "inner" space is bad business 
according to God's standards.   It is true that we must 
keep up our national defenses and scientific accomplishments; only 
a fool would think otherwise. But we must not forget man's soul.

Is putting a rocket in orbit half so significant as the good news 
that God put His Son, 
Jesus Christ, on earth to live and die to 
save our hell-bound souls? <"For God so loved the world, that 
he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should 
not perish, but have everlasting life"> (John 3:16).   Never 
forget that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link. Your spiritual 
"inner" space helps determine the spirituality of America 
as a nation. We trust you are not one of the 70,000,000 Americans 
who do not attend church, but who feel that various forms of recreation 
are more important than worshipping the God who made our country great.

Is forgiveness of past sins, assurance of present help, and 
hope of future bliss in your orbit? Or are you trying the devil's 
substitutes to relieve that spiritual hunger you feel within? Pleasure, 
fame and fortune, drowning your troubles with a drink, and "living 
it up" with the gang are like candy bars when you're hungry: 
they may ease your hunger temporarily, but they'll never take the 
place of a satisfying, mouth-watering steak.   So it is spiritually. 
No amount of religious ceremonies or even joining a church will 
relieve the gnawing of your "inner" space. Why? Because your 
soul was made to be filled with God Himself, not religious functions 
"about" Him. Only He can satisfy the deepest longings. That 
is why the Bible commands you to <"Taste and see that the Lord 
is good: blessed> [happy] <is the man that trusteth in him"> 
(Psalm 34:8).   You can receive God into your heart and life 
by a step of personal faith. Accept the sinless Son of God, Jesus 
Christ, as your own personal Saviour. <"As many as received him> 
[Jesus], <to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even 
to them that believe on his name"> 
<"The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? 
the Lord is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be 
afraid"?> 
Psalm 27:1   A certain teacher scheduled a "Fear Party" 
for her fourth grade pupils. It was a session at which all the youngsters 
were told to express their fears, to get them out in the open 
where they could talk about them freely. The teacher thought it was 
so successful that she asks: "Wouldn't it be helpful to all age 
groups if they could participate in a similar confessional of their 
fears and worries"?   Dr& George W& Crane, a medical 
columnist, thinks it would. He says: "That would reduce neurotic 
ailments tremendously. Each week an estimated 20 million patients call 
upon us doctors. Of this number, 50%, or 10 million patients have 
no diagnosable physical ailments whatever. They are 'worry warts'. 
Yet they keep running from one physician to another, largely to get 
a willing ear who will listen to their parade of troubles. One of 
the most wholesome things you could schedule in your church would thus 
be a group confessional where people could admit of their inner tensions".

We are evidently trying hard to think of new ways to 
deal with the problem of fear these days. It must be getting more serious. 
People are giving their doctors a hard time. One doctor made 
a careful survey of his patients and the reasons for their troubles, and 
he reported that 40% of them worried about things that never happened; 
30% of them worried about past happenings which were completely 
beyond their control; 12% of them worried about their health, 
although their ailments were imaginary; 10% of them worried about 
their friends, neighbors, and relatives, most of whom were quite capable 
of taking care of themselves. Only 8% of the worries had behind 
them real causes which demanded attention.   Well, most of our 
fears may be unfounded, but after you discover that fact, you have something 
else to worry about: Why then do we have these fears? What 
is the real cause of them? What is there about us that makes us so 
anxious?   Look at the things we do to escape our fears and 
to forget our worries. We spend millions of dollars every year on fortune 
tellers and soothsayers. We spend billions of dollars at the race 
tracks, and more billions on other forms of gambling. We spend billions 
of dollars on liquor, and many more billions on various forms of 
escapist entertainment. We consume tons of aspirin and tranquilizers 
and sleeping pills in order to get a moment's relief from the tensions 
that are tearing us apart.   A visitor from a more peaceful 
country across the sea was taken to one of our amusement parks, and after 
he had seen it all, he said to a friend: "You must be a very 
sad people". "Sad" was not the right word, of course. He should 
have said "jittery", for that's what we are. And that's worse 
than sad. Watch people flock to amusement houses, cocktail lounges, 
and night clubs that advertise continuous entertainment, which means 
an endless flow of noise and frivolity by paid entertainers who are supposed 
to perform in those incredible ways which are designed to give 
men a few hours of dubious relaxation- watch them and you can tell 
that many of them are running away from something.   In one of 
his writings Pascal speaks of this mania for diversion as being a sign 
of misery and fear which man cannot endure without such opiates. Yes, 
and as tension mounts in this world, fear is increasing. Does that 
explain why there is now such a big boom in the bomb shelter business? 
We have so many new things to fear in this age of nuclear weapons, 
dreadful things which are too horrible to contemplate. I doubt that 
"fear parties" and "group confessionals" will help very much. 
Suppose we do get our fears out in the open, what then? Isn't that 
where most of them are already- right out on the front page of our 
newspapers? Maybe we are talking about them too much. The question 
is: what are we going to do about them?   Meanwhile, the 
enemy will capitalize on our fears, if he can. Hitler did just that 
23 years ago, building up tensions that first led to a Munich and then 
to a world war. The fear of war can make us either too weak to stand 
and too willing to compromise, or too reckless and too nervous to negotiate 
for peace as long as there is any chance to negotiate. It is 
said that fear in human beings produces an odor that provokes animals 
to attack. It could have the same effect on Communists. The President 
of the United States has said: "We will never negotiate out 
of fear, and we will never fear to negotiate". That is a sound position, 
but it is important that Moscow shall recognize it not merely 
as the word of a president but as the mind of a free people who are not 
afraid. And that's another reason why it is imperative for us these 
days to conquer our fears, to develop the poise that promotes peace.

Turning to the Word of God, we find the only sure way to do 
that. In Psalm 27:1 you read those beautiful words which you must 
have in your heart if you are to master the fears that surround you, 
or to drive them out if they have you in their grip: "The Lord 
is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the Lord is the 
strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid"?   Well, 
you say, those are beautiful words all right, but it was easy for the 
psalmist to sing them in his day. He didn't live in a world of perpetual 
peril like ours. He didn't know anything about the problems 
we face today.   No? Read the next two verses: "When the 
wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, 
they stumbled and fell. Though an host should encamp against me, my 
heart shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this will 
I be confident".   That is almost a perfect description of 
the predicament in which we find ourselves today, isn't it? Our 
enemy is also threatening to devour us. He has already devoured huge 
areas of the world, putting men behind concrete walls and iron curtains 
and barbed wire, reducing them to slavery, systematically crushing 
not only their bodies but their souls, and shooting them to death if they 
try to escape their prison. Yes indeed, we too can see a warlike 
host of infidels encamped against us.   What a terrible thing, that 
"wailing wall" in Berlin! A man with a baby in his arms stood 
there pleading for his wife who is on the other side with the rest 
of the family. Another man tried to swim across the river from the East 
to the West, but was shot and killed. A middle aged woman opened 
a window on the third floor of her house which was behind the wall, 
she threw out a few belongings and then jumped; she was fatally injured. 
The entrance to a church has been walled up, so that the congregation, 
most of which is in the western sector, cannot worship God there 
anymore. Practically everybody in Berlin has relatives and friends 
that live in the opposite part of the city. People stand at the wall 
giving vent to their feelings, weeping, pounding it with their fists, 
pleading for loved ones. But the enemy answers them from loudspeakers 
that pour out Communist propaganda with a generous mixture of terrible 
profanity. There is only one escape left, a tragic one, and too 
many people are taking it: suicide. The normal rate of suicides in 
East Berlin was one a day, but since the border was closed on August 
13 it has jumped to 25 a day!   These things may be happening 
many miles away from us but really they are right next door. We are 
all involved in them, deeply involved. And nobody knows what comes next. 
We live from crisis to crisis. And there is only one way for a 
man to conquer his fears in such a world. He must learn to say with 
true faith what the psalmist said in a similar world: "The Lord 
is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the Lord is the 
strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid"?

Notice 
that this man had a threefold conception of God which is the secret 
of his faith. First, "the Lord is my <light>". He lived in a 
very dark world, but he was not in the dark. The same God who called 
this world into being when He said: "Let there be light"!- 
those were His very first creative words- He began the world with 
light- this God still gives light to a world which man has plunged 
into darkness. For those who put their trust in Him He still says 
every day again: "Let there be light"! And there is light!

In fact, He came into this world Himself, in the person of 
His Son, Jesus Christ, who stood here amid the darkness of human 
sin and said: "I am the light of the world: he that followeth 
me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life". The 
psalmist could say that God was his light even though he could only 
anticipate the coming of Christ. He lived in the dawn; he could 
only see the light coming over the horizon. We live in the bright daylight 
of that great event; for us it is a fact in history. Why should 
we not have the same faith, and an even greater experience of the light 
which it gives?   This is the faith that moved the psalmist 
to add his second conception of God: "The Lord is **h my <salvation>". 
He knew that his God would save him from his enemies 
because He had saved him from his sins. If God could do that, He could 
do anything. The enemies at his gate, threatening to eat up his 
flesh, were nothing compared with the enemy of sin within his own soul. 
And God had conquered that one by His grace! So why worry about 
all the others?   The apostle Paul said the same thing in the 
language and faith of the New Testament: "He that spared not 
His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not with 
Him freely give us all things? **h If God be for us, who can be 
against us? **h Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? 
shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, 
or peril, or sword"? (Romans 8:31, 32, 35)   Salvation! 
This is the key to 
the conquest of fear. This gets down to the heart of our problem, for 
it reconciles us with God, whom we fear most of all because we have 
sinned against Him. When that fear has been removed by faith in Jesus 
Christ, when we know that He is our Savior, that He has paid our 
debt with His blood, that He has met the demands of God's justice 
and thus has turned His wrath away- when we know that, we have peace 
with God in our hearts; and then, with this God on our side, 
we can face the whole world without fear.   And so the psalmist 
gives us one more picture of God: "The Lord is the <strength> 
of my life". The word is really "stronghold". It recalls those 
words of another psalm: "God is our refuge and strength, a very 
present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear, though the earth 
be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the 
sea **h Come, behold the works of the Lord, what desolations He 
hath made in the earth. 
But, again, we have no real evidence on this from that quarter until 
the close of the ninth century A&D&, when an Arabic scholar, Tabit 
ibn Korra (836-901) is said to have discussed the magic square of 
three. Thus, while it remains possible that the Babylonians and/or 
the Pythagoreans may perhaps have had the magic square of three before 
the Chinese did, more definite evidence will have to turn up from 
the Middle East or the Classical World before China can lose her 
claim to the earliest known magic square by more than a thousand years. 

#2. THE "LO SHU" SQUARE AS AN EXPRESSION OF CENTRALITY# 

The 
concept of the Middle Kingdom at peace, strong and united under a 
forceful ruler, which had been only a longed-for ideal in the time of 
the 
Warring States, was finally realized by the establishment of a Chinese 
Empire under the Ch'in dynasty (221-207 B&C&). But this 
was only accomplished by excessive cruelty and extremes of totalitarian 
despotism. Among the many severe measures taken by the First Emperor, 
Shih Huang-ti, in his efforts to insure the continuation of 
this hard-won national unity, was the burning of the books in 213 B&C&, 
with the expressed intention of removing possible sources for 
divergent thinking; but, as he had a special fondness for magic and 
divination, he ordered that books on these subjects should be spared. 
Many of the latter were destroyed in their turn, during the burning 
of the vast Ch'in palace some ten years later; yet some must have 
survived, because the old interest in number symbolism, divination, 
and magic persisted on into the Han dynasty, which succeeded in reuniting 
China and keeping it together for a longer period (from 202 B&C& 
to A&D& 220). In fact, during 
the first century B&C&, an extensive literature sprang up devoted 
to these subjects, finding its typical expression in the so-called 
"<wei> books", a number of which were specifically devoted to 
the <Lo Shu> and related numerical diagrams, especially in connection 
with divination. However, the <wei> books were also destroyed 
in a series of Orthodox Confucian purges which culminated in a final 
proscription in 605.   After all this destruction of old literature, 
it should be obvious why we have so little information about the 
early history and development of the <Lo Shu>, which was already 
semisecret anyhow. But, in spite of all this, enough evidence remains 
to show that the magic square of three must indeed have been the object 
of a rather extensive cult- or series of cults- reaching fullest 
expression in the Han period.   Although modern scholars have 
expressed surprise that "the simple magic square of three", a mere 
"mathematical puzzle", was able to exert a considerable influence 
on the minds and imaginations of the cultured Chinese for so many centuries, 
they could have found most of the answers right within the square 
itself. But, up to now, no one has attempted to analyze its inherent 
mathematical properties, or the numerical significance of its numbers- 
singly or in combination- and then tried to consider these in 
the light of Old Chinese cosmological concepts.   Such an analysis 
speedily reveals why the middle number of the <Lo Shu>, 5, 
was so vitally significant for the Chinese ever since the earliest hints 
that they had a knowledge of this diagram. The importance of this 
5 can largely be explained by the natural mathematical properties of 
the middle number and its special relationship to all the rest of the 
numbers- quite apart from any numerological considerations, which is 
to say, any symbolic meaning arbitrarily assigned to it. Indeed, mathematically 
speaking, it was both functionally and symbolically the most 
important number in the entire diagram.   If one takes the middle 
number, 5, and multiplies it by 3 (the base number of the magic 
square of three), the result is 15, which is also the constant sum of 
all the rows, columns, and two main diagonals. Then, if the middle number 
is activated to its greatest potential in terms of this square, through 
multiplying it by the highest number, 9 (which is the square of 
the base number), the result is 45; and the latter is the total sum 
of all the numbers in the square, by which all the other numbers are 
overshadowed and in which they may be said to be absorbed.   Furthermore, 
the middle number of the <Lo Shu> is not only the physical 
mean between every opposing pair of the other numbers, by reason of 
its central position; it is also their mathematical mean, since it 
is equal to half the sum of every opposing pair, all of which equal 10. 
In fact, the neat balance of these pairs, and their subtle equilibrium, 
would have had special meaning in the minds of the Old Chinese. 
For they considered the odd numbers as male and the even ones as female, 
equating the two groups with the Yang and Yin principles in Nature; 
and in this square, the respective pairs made up of large and 
small odd (Yang) numbers, and those composed of large and small even 
(Yin) numbers, were all equal to each other. Thus all differences were 
leveled, and all contrasts erased, in a realm of no distinction, and 
the harmonious balance of the <Lo Shu> square could effectively 
symbolize the world in balanced harmony around a powerful central axis.

The tremendous emphasis on the 5 in the <Lo Shu> square- 
for purely mathematical reasons- and the fact that this number so 
neatly symbolized the heart and center of the universe, could well explain 
why the Old Chinese seem to have so revered the number 5, and 
why they put so much stress on the concept of Centrality. These twin 
tendencies seem to have reached their height in the Han dynasty.

The existing reverence for Centrality must have been still further 
stimulated toward the close of the second century B&C&, when 
the Han Emperor Wu Ti ordered the dynastic color changed to yellow- 
which symbolized the Center among the traditional Five Directions- 
and took 5 as the dynastic number, believing that he would thus 
place himself, his imperial family, and the nation under the most auspicious 
influences. His immediate motive for doing this may not have 
been directly inspired by the <Lo Shu>, but this measure must inevitably 
have increased the existing beliefs in the latter's efficacy.

After this time, inscriptions on the Han bronze mirrors, as well 
as other writings, emphasized the desirability of keeping one's 
self at the center of the universe, where cosmic forces were strongest. 
Later, we shall see what happened when an emperor took this idea too 
literally.   All this emphasis on Centrality and on the number 
5 as a symbolic expression of the Center, which seems to have begun 
as far back as 400 B&C&, also may conceivably have led to the development 
of the Five-Elements School and the subsequent efforts to 
fit everything into numerical categories of five. We find, for example, 
such groupings as the Five Ancient Rulers, the Five Sacred Mountains, 
the Five Directions (with Center), the Five Metals, Five 
Colors, Five Tastes, Five Odors, Five Musical Notes, Five 
Bodily Functions, Five Viscera, and many others. This trend has 
often been ascribed to the cult of the Five Elements itself, as though 
they had served as the base for all the rest; but why did the Old 
Chinese postulate <five> elements, when the Ancient Near East- 
which may have initiated the idea that natural elements exerted influence 
in human life and activities- recognized only four? And why 
did the Chinese suddenly begin to talk about the Five Directions, 
when the animals they used as symbols of the directions designated only 
the usual four? Obviously, something suddenly caused them to start 
thinking in terms of fives, and that may have been the workings of 
the <Lo Shu>.   This whole tendency had an unfortunate effect 
on Chinese thinking. Whereas the primary meanings of the <Lo Shu> 
diagram seemed to have been based on its inner mathematical properties- 
and we shall see that even its secondary meanings rested on 
some mathematical bases- the urgent desire to place everything into 
categories of fives led to other groupings based on other numbers, until 
an exaggerated emphasis on mere numerology pervaded Chinese thought. 
Scholars made numbered sets of as many things as possible in Nature, 
or assigned arbitrary numbers to individual things, in a fashion that 
seems to the modern scientific mind as downright nonsensical, and 
philosophical ideas based upon all this tended to stifle speculative thought 
in China for many centuries. 

#3. YIN AND YANG IN THE "LO SHU" 
SQUARE#

Although the primary mathematical properties of the middle 
number at the center of the <Lo Shu>, and the interrelation 
of all the other numbers to it, might seem enough to account for the deep 
fascination which the <Lo Shu> held for the Old Chinese philosophers, 
this was actually only a beginning of wonders. For the <Lo 
Shu> square was a remarkably complete compendium of most of the chief 
religious and philosophical ideas of its time. As such, one cannot 
fully understand the thought of the pre-Han and Han periods without 
knowing the meanings inherent in the <Lo Shu>; but, conversely, 
one cannot begin to understand the <Lo Shu> without knowing something 
about the world view of the Old Chinese, which they felt they 
saw expressed in it.   The Chinese world view during the Han dynasty, 
when the <Lo Shu> seems to have been at the height of its 
popularity, was based in large part on the teachings of the Yin-Yang 
and Five-Elements School, which was traditionally founded by Tsou 
Yen. According to this doctrine, the universe was ruled by Heaven, 
<T'ien>- as a natural force, or in the personification of a Supreme 
Sky-god- governing all things by means of a process called the 
<Tao>, 
which can be roughly interpreted as "the Order of the Universe" 
or "the Universal Way". Heaven, acting through the Tao, 
expressed itself by means of the workings of two basic principles, 
the Yin and the Yang. The Yang, or male principle, was the source 
of light, heat, and dynamic vitality, associated with the Sun; while 
the Yin, or female principle, flourished in darkness, cold, and quiet 
inactivity, and was associated with the Moon. Together these two 
principles influenced all things, and in varying combinations they were 
present in everything.   We have already seen that odd numbers 
were considered as being Yang, while the even numbers were Yin, so 
that the eight outer numbers of the <Lo Shu> represented these two 
principles in balanced equilibrium around the axial center. During 
the Han dynasty, another Yin-Yang conception was applied to the <Lo 
Shu>, considering the latter as a plan of Ancient China. Instead 
of linking the nine numbers of this diagram with the traditional Nine 
Provinces, as was usually 
done, this equated the odd, Yang numbers 
with mountains (firm and resistant, hence Yang) and the even numbers 
with rivers (sinuous and yielding, hence Yin); taking the former 
from the Five Sacred Mountains of the Han period and the latter from 
the principal river systems of Old China.   Thus the middle 
number, 5, represented Sung-Shan in Honan, Central China; the 
3, T'ai-Shan in Shantung, East China; the 7, Hwa-Shan in Shensi, 
West China; the 1, Heng-Shan in Hopei, North China (or 
the mountain with the same name in neighboring Shansi); and the 
9, Huo-Shan in Anhwei, which was then the South Sacred Mountain. 
For the rivers, the 4 represented the Huai, to the (then) Southeast; 
the 2, the San Kiang (three rivers) in the (then) Southwest; 
the 8, the Chi in the Northeast; and the 6, the (upper) Yellow River 
in the Northwest.   Note that by Western standards this 
plan was "upside down", as it put North at the bottom and South 
at the top, with the other directions correspondingly altered; but in 
this respect it was merely following the accepted Chinese convention 
for all maps. The same arrangement was used when the <Lo Shu> was 
equated with the Nine Provinces; and whenever the <Lo Shu> 
involved directional symbolism, it was oriented in this same fashion. 
Few persons who join the Church are insincere. They earnestly desire 
to do the will of God. When they fall by the wayside and fail to achieve 
Christian stature, it is an <indictment of the Church>. These 
fatalities are dramatic evidence of "halfway evangelism", a failure 
to follow through. A program of Lay Visitation Evangelism can 
end in dismal defeat with half the new members drifting away unless 
practical plans and strenuous efforts are made to keep them in the active 
fellowship.   The work of Lay Visitation Evangelism is not 
completed when all of the persons on the Responsibility List have 
been interviewed. In the average situation about one-third of those visited 
make commitments to Christ and the Church. The pastor and the 
Membership Preparation and Assimilation Committee <must follow 
through> immediately with a carefully planned program. The first thirty 
to sixty days after individuals make their decision will determine 
their interest and participation in the life of the Church. Neglect 
means spiritual paralysis or death. 

#PREPARATION FOR MEMBERSHIP# 

CHURCHES THAT HAVE a carefully planned program of membership preparation 
and assimilation often keep 85 to 90 per cent of their new members 
loyal and active. This is the answer to the problem of "membership 
delinquency".   It is important that persons desiring to 
unite with the Church be <prepared> for this experience so that it 
may be meaningful and spiritually significant. It is unfair and unchristian 
to ask a person to take the sacred vows of Church membership 
before he has been carefully instructed concerning their implications.

Preparation for Church membership begins immediately after 
the commitment is received. _1)_ The pastor <writes a personal letter> 
to each individual, expressing his joy over the decision, assuring 
him of a pastoral call at the earliest convenient time, and outlining 
the plan for membership preparation classes and Membership Sunday. 
Some pastors write a letter the same night the decision is reported 
by the visitors. It should not be postponed later than the next day. 
A helpful leaflet may be enclosed in the letter. _2)_ The pastor 
calls in the home of each individual or family for a <spiritual guidance 
conference>. If possible, he should make an appointment in order 
that all persons involved may be present. This is <not> a social 
call. It is definitely a "spiritual guidance conference". He 
will discuss the significance of Christian commitment, the necessity 
of family religion and private devotions, and the importance of the 
membership preparation sessions. There may be problems of conduct or 
questions of belief which will require his counsel. Each conference 
should be concluded naturally with prayer. A piece of devotional material, 
such as <The Upper Room>, may be left in each home. _3)_ 
A minimum of <four sessions of preparation for membership> is necessary 
for adults. Some churches require more. None should ask less. 
Those who join the Church need to be instructed in the faith and the 
meaning of Christian discipleship <before> they take the sacred 
vows. They will have a greater appreciation for the Church and a deeper 
devotion to it if membership requires something of them.   Many 
churches find the Sunday school hour to be the most practical time 
for adult preparation classes. Others meet on Sunday night, at the 
mid-week service, or for a series of four nights. Some pastors have 
two sessions in one evening, with a refreshment period between. 
The sessions should cover four major areas: _A_- The Christian 
Faith _B_- History of the Church _C_- Duties of Church 
Membership _D_- The Local Church and Its Program

Following each instruction period a piece of literature dealing 
with the topic should be handed each one for further reading during the 
week. This procedure is much more effective than giving out a membership 
packet. 

#FOURTH SESSION IMPORTANT#

MOST PASTORS FIND 
that the fourth session should take at least two hours and therefore 
hold it on a week night prior to Reception Sunday. In this session 
the persons seeking membership are provided information concerning the 
work of the denomination as well as the program and activities of the 
local church. The lay leadership of the church may be invited to speak 
on the various phases of church life, service opportunities, the church 
school, missions, men's work, women's work, youth program, social 
activities, and finances. The budget of the church may be presented 
and pledges solicited at this session. An "interest finder" or 
"talent sheet" may be filled out by each person. (See sample on 
pp& 78-79.) The fourth session may be concluded with a tour of the 
church facilities and refreshments. The social time gives an opportunity 
for church leaders to become acquainted with the new members. 

#ADDITIONAL 
SUGGESTIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP PREPARATION#

IN CONDUCTING 
the Membership Preparation-Inquirers' Class, the pastor should 
plan a variety of teaching techniques in order to develop greater interest 
on the part of the class. The following have been found effective. 

_1)_ <Extend the number of classes>. Some churches have 
six or more training sessions of two hours each, generally held on Sunday 
night or during the week. This gives greater opportunity for the 
learning process. _2)_ <Use dramatization>- for example, in 
discussing the Lord's Supper or church symbolism. _3)_ <Use 
audio-visual aids>. Some excellent filmstrips with recordings and motion 
pictures may be secured from your denominational headquarters to 
enrich the class session. _4)_ <Have a "Question Box>". 
Some new members will hesitate to ask questions audibly. Urge them 
to write out their questions for the box. _5)_ <Use a textbook> 
with assigned readings each week. _6)_ <Select class members for 
reports> on various phases of the study. _7)_ <Conduct examinations>, 
using a true-false check sheet. _8)_ <Ask each member 
to write a statement> on such topics as: "What Christ Means to 
Me", "What the Church Means to Me", "Why Join the Church", 
"The Duties of Church Members", etc&. _9)_ <Assign 
a series of catechism questions> to be memorized. _10)_ <Invite 
class members to share in an extra period of Bible study> each 
week. _11)_ <Ask each new member to bring his Pledge of Loyalty> 
to the Reception Service. 

#WHAT ABOUT TRANSFERS?#

THERE 
IS A GROWING CONVICTION among pastors and Church leaders that 
all those who come into the fellowship of the Church need preparatory 
training, including those coming by transfer of membership. George E& 
Sweazey writes: "There is danger in trying to make admission 
to the Church so easy and painless that people will scarcely know 
that anything has happened".   People appreciate experiences 
that demand something of them. Those who transfer their membership are 
no exception to the rule. For most of them, it will be their first 
experience in membership training, since this is a recent development 
in many churches. Those coming from other denominations will welcome 
the opportunity to become informed.   The preparatory class is 
an introductory face-to-face group in which new members become acquainted 
with one another. It provides a natural transition into the life 
of the local church and its organizations. 

#RECEPTION INTO THE CHURCH 
FELLOWSHIP#

THE TOTAL PROCESS of evangelism reaches the crescendo 
when the group of new members stands before the congregation to 
declare publicly their faith and to be received into the fellowship 
of the Church. This should be a high moment in their lives, a 
never-to-be-forgotten 
experience. They should sense the tremendous significance 
of joining the spiritual succession reaching back to Christ our 
Lord and forward to an eternal fellowship with the saints of the ages.

Every detail of the service merits careful attention- the 
hymns, the sermon, the ritual, the right hand of fellowship, the introduction 
to the congregation, the welcome of the congregation. This is 
a vital part of their spiritual growth and assimilation. It will help 
to determine the attitude of the new members toward the Church. It 
can mean the difference between participation and inaction, spiritual 
growth and decay.   The worship service is the natural and logical 
time to receive new members into the Church. The atmosphere for 
this momentous experience can be created most effectively through the 
worship experience. Psychologically the reception should be the 
climax, following the sermon. _1)_ Ask the new members to meet thirty 
minutes before the service to complete "talent sheets" and pledge 
cards. Some denominations ask new members to sign personally the 
chronological membership register. Provide a <name card> for each 
new member. Outline plans for the entire service. _2)_ Arrange a 
reserved section in the sanctuary where all new members may sit together. 
Sponsors may sit with them also. _3)_ Invite sponsors or Fellowship 
Friends to stand back of the new members in the reception service. 

_4)_ Give each new member a certificate of membership. _5)_ 
Introduce each new member to the congregation, asking him to face 
the congregation. _6)_ Lead the congregation in a response of 
welcome. _7)_ Have a reception for new members in the parlor or 
social hall immediately after the service. _8)_ Take a picture of 
the group of new members to be put in the church paper or placed on the 
bulletin board. _9)_ Have a fellowship luncheon or dinner with 
new members as guests. 

#CHAPTER 6 PLANNING FOR THE ASSIMILATION AND 
GROWTH OF NEW MEMBERS#

THE CHURCH is "the family of God". 
The members of the "family" are drawn together by a common love 
for Christ and a sincere devotion to His Kingdom. Every member 
of the family must have a vital place in its life. This is no spectator-type 
experience; everyone is to be a participant.   Yet the 
most difficult problem in the Church's program of evangelism is right 
at this point- helping new members to become participating, growing 
parts of the fellowship. Very easily they may be neglected and eventually 
join the ranks of the unconcerned and inactive.   A study 
of major denominational membership statistics over a twenty-year period 
revealed the appalling fact that nearly 40 per cent of those who 
joined the Church were <lost to the Church within seven years>. One 
denomination had a membership of 1,419,833 at the beginning of the 
period under study, and twenty years later its membership stood at 1,541,991- 
a net growth of only 122,158. Yet during the same period there 
were 1,080,062 additions. Another major church body had 4,499,608 
members and twenty years later its membership stood at 4,622,444. During 
this time 4,122,354 new members were brought into the fellowship. 
Still another denomination had 7,360,187 members twenty years ago. During 
this period 7,484,268 members were received, yet the net membership 
now is only 9,910,741. These figures indicate that we are losing 
almost as many as we are receiving into membership.   This problem 
is illustrated by the fact that many local churches drop from the 
active membership rolls each year as many as they receive into the fellowship. 
Studies of membership trends, even in some areas where population 
is expanding, show that numbers of churches have had little net 
increase, though many new members were received. Something is wrong when 
these things happen. The local "family of God" has failed its 
new members through neglect and unconcern for their spiritual welfare. 

#BASIC NEEDS#

NEW MEMBERS <can> become participating, growing 
members. But this will not happen merely through the natural process 
of social life. It must be planned and carefully developed. The 
entire membership of the local church must be alerted to their part 
in this dynamic process.   If the church has followed the plan 
of cultivation of prospects and carried through a program of membership 
preparation as outlined earlier in this book, the process of assimilation 
and growth will be well under way. Those who enter the <front 
door> of the church intelligently and with Christian dedication will 
not so easily step through the <back door> because of lost interest.

However, it is not enough to bring persons to Christian commitment 
and train them in the meaning of Christian discipleship. When 
they unite with the Church they must find in this fellowship the satisfaction 
of their basic spiritual needs or they will never mature into 
effective Christians.   The Church expects certain things of 
those who become members. The new members justifiably expect some things 
from their church family:  - Welcome into the fellowship 
  - Sincere Christian love and understanding  - Inspiring 
and challenging worship experiences  - Social and recreational 
activities  - Opportunities for Christian service 
  - Opportunities for study of the Christian faith and the Bible 
  - Creative prayer experiences  - Guidance in Christian 
social concerns

MEN need unity and they need God. Care must be taken neither 
to confuse unity with uniformity nor God with our parochial ideas 
about him, but with these two qualifications, the statement stands. 
The statement also points to a classic paradox: The more men turn 
toward God, who is not only in himself the paradigm of all unity but 
also the only ground on which human unity can ultimately be established, 
the more men splinter into groups and set themselves apart from one 
another. To be reminded of this we need only glance at the world map 
and note the extent to which religious divisions have compounded political 
ones, with a resultant fragmentation of the human race. Massacres 
attending the partition of India and the establishment of the State 
of Israel are simply recent grim evidences of the hostility such 
divisions can engender. The words of Cardinal Newman come forcibly 
to 
mind: "Oh how we hate one another for the love of God"!

The source of this paradox is not difficult to identify. It lies 
in institutions. Institutions require structure, form, and definition, 
and these in turn entail differentiation and exclusion. A completely 
amorphous institution would be a contradiction in terms; to escape 
this fate, it must rule some things out. For every criterion which 
defines what something is, at the same time proclaims- implicitly if 
not openly- what that something is not. Some persons are so sensitive 
to this truth as to propose that we do away with institutions altogether; 
in the present context this amounts to the advice that while 
being religious may have a certain justification, we ought to dispense 
with churches. The suggestion is naive. Man is at once a gregarious 
animal and a form-creating being. Having once committed himself to 
an ideal which he considers worthwhile, he inevitably creates forms 
for its expression and institutions for its continuance. To propose that 
men be religious without having religious institutions is like proposing 
that they be learned without having schools. Both eventualities 
are possible logically, but practically they are impossible. As much 
as men intrinsically need the unity that is grounded in God, they instrumentally 
require the institutions that will direct their steps toward 
him.   Yet the fact remains that such institutions do set men 
at odds with their fellows. Is there any way out of the predicament? 
The only way that I can see is through communication. Interfaith 
communication need not be regarded as an unfortunate burden visited 
upon us by the necessity of maintaining diplomatic relations with our 
adversaries. Approached creatively, it is a high art. It is the art 
of relating the finite to the infinite, of doing our best to insure that 
the particularistic requirements of religious institutions will not 
thwart God's intent of unity among men more than is minimally necessary. 
In a certain sense, interfaith communication parallels diplomatic 
communication among the nation-states.   What are the pertinent 
facts affecting such communication at the present juncture of history? 
I shall touch on three areas: personal, national, and theological. 
#/1,#

By personal factors I mean those rooted in personality 
structure. Some interfaith tensions are not occasioned by theological 
differences at all, but by the need of men to have persons they 
can blame, distrust, denounce, and even hate. Such needs may rise 
to pathological proportions. Modern psychology has shown that paralleling 
"the authoritarian personality" is "the bigoted personality" 
in which insecurity, inferiority, suspicion, and distrust combine 
to provide a target for antagonism so indispensable that it will be manufactured 
if it does not exist naturally. Fortunately the number of 
pathological bigots appears to be quite small, but it would be a mistake 
to think that more than a matter of degree separates them from the 
rest of us. To some extent the personal inadequacies that prejudices 
attempt to compensate for are to be found in all of us.   Interfaith 
conflicts which spring from psychological deficiencies are the most 
unfortunate of all, for they have no redeeming features whatsoever. 
It is difficult to say what can be done about them except that we must 
learn to recognize when it is they, rather than pretexts for them, 
that are causing the trouble, and do everything possible to nurture the 
healthy personalities that will prevent the development of such deficiencies. 
#/2,#

While the personality factors that aggravate interfaith 
conflict may be perennial, nationalism is more variable. The 
specific instance I have in mind is the Afro-Asian version which 
has gained prominence only in this second half of the twentieth century.

Emerging from the two centuries of colonial domination, the 
Afro-Asian world is aflame with a nationalism that has undone empires. 
No less than twenty-two nations have already achieved independence 
since World War /2,, and the number is growing by the year. As 
an obvious consequence, obstacles to genuine interfaith communication 
have grown more formidable in one important area: relations between 
Christians and non-Christians in these lands. Colonialism alone would 
have been able to make these difficulties serious, for Christianity 
is so closely tied to colonialism in the minds of these people that 
repudiation of the one has tended automatically toward the repudiation 
of the other. Actually, however, this turns out to be only part of 
the picture. Nationalism has abetted not only the repudiation of foreign 
religions but the revival of native ones, some of which had been lying 
in slumber for centuries. The truth is that any revival of traditional 
and indigenous religion will serve to promote that sense of identity 
and <Volksgeist> which these young nations very much need. Insofar 
as these nations claim to incarnate traditions and ways of life 
which constitute ultimate, trans-political justifications for their existence, 
such people are inevitably led to emphasize the ways in which 
these traditions and ways are <theirs> rather than someone else's.

All this works severely against the kind of cross-cultural 
communication for which Christian missions stand. Africans and Asians 
tend to consider not only missions but the local churches they have 
produced as centers and agents of Western culture and ideology if not 
of direct political propaganda. The people hardest hit by this suspicion 
are, of course, Christians on the mainland of China. But the 
problem extends elsewhere. For example, in Burma and Ceylon many Buddhists 
argue that Buddhism ought to be the official state religion. 
In 1960 Ceylon nationalized its sectarian- preponderantly Christian- 
schools, to the rejoicing of most of its 7,000,000 Buddhists and 
the lament of its 800,000 Roman Catholics. Again, India has imposed 
formidable barriers against the entrance of additional missionaries, 
and fanatical Hindu parties are expected to seek further action against 
Christians once the influence making for tolerance due to Nehru 
and his followers is gone.   The progressive closing of Afro-Asian 
ears to the Christian message is epitomized in a conversation 
I had three years ago while flying from Jerusalem to Cairo. I was 
seated next to the director of the Seventh Day Adventists' world 
radio program. He said that on his tour the preceding year a considerable 
number of hours would have been available to him on Japanese radio 
networks, but that he had then lacked the funds to contract for them. 
After returning to the United States and raising the money, he 
discovered on getting back to Japan that the hours were no longer available. 
It was not that they had been contracted for during the interval; 
they simply could no longer be purchased for missionary purposes. 
It is not unfair to add on the other side that the crude and almost 
vitriolic approach of certain fundamentalist sects toward the cultures 
and religions among which they work has contributed measurably to this 
heightening of anti-Christian sentiment. Ironically, these are the 
groups which have doubled or tripled their missionary efforts since 
World War /2,, while the more established denominations are barely 
maintaining pre-war staffs.   Although I have emphasized the 
barriers which an aroused nationalism has raised against relations between 
Christians and non-Christians in Asia, the fact is that this development 
has also widened the gulf between certain Afro-Asian religions 
themselves. The partition of India has hardly improved relations 
between Hindus and Muslims; neither has the establishment of the 
State of Israel fostered harmony between Muslims and Jews. #/3,# 

I turn finally to several theological developments. _1._ <Theocracy 
reconsidered>. The modern world has been marked by progressive 
disaffection with claims to divine sanction for the state, whatever 
its political form. The American Constitution was historic at 
this point in providing that "Congress shall make no law respecting 
an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof". 
One of our foremost jurists, David Dudley Field, has gone so 
far as to call this provision "the greatest achievement ever made in 
the course of human history".   The trend throughout the world's 
religions has been toward a recognition of at least the practical 
validity of this constitutional enactment. Pakistan was created in 
1947 expressly as a Muslim state, but when the army took over eleven 
years later it did so on a wave of mass impatience which was directed 
in part against the inability of political and religious leaders to think 
their way through to the meaning of Islam for the modern political 
situation. "What is the point", Charles Adams reports the Pakistanis 
as asking, "in demanding an Islamic state and society if no 
one, not even the doctors of the sacred law themselves, can say clearly 
and succinctly what the nature of such a state and society is"? 
The current regime of President Mohammad Ayub Khan is determinedly 
secular. And while the nation was formerly named "The Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan", it is now simply "The Republic of Pakistan".

Comparable trends can be noted elsewhere. The new regime 
in Turkey is intentionally less Muslim than its predecessor. The 
religious parties in Israel have experienced a great loss of prestige 
in recent months. During the years when Israel was passing from 
crisis to crisis- the Sinai campaign, the infusion of multitudes of 
penniless immigrants- it was felt that the purpose of national unity 
could be best served if the secular majority were to yield to the religious 
parties. Now that Israel enjoys relative prosperity and a reduction 
of tensions, the secularists are less disposed to compromise. 
And in this country Gustave Weigel's delineation of the line between 
the sacral and secular orders during the last presidential campaign 
served to provide a most impressive Roman Catholic defense of the 
practical autonomy of both church and state. The failure at that time 
of the Puerto Rican bishops to control the votes of their people added 
a ring of good sense to Father Weigel's theological argument. 
Everywhere there seems to be a growing recognition of the fact that 
governments and religious institutions alike are too fallible and corruptible- 
in a word, too human- to warrant any claim of maintaining 
partnership with the divine. _2._ <Salvation reconsidered>. My 
father went as a missionary to China in a generation that responded 
to Student Volunteer Movement speakers who held watches in their hands 
and announced to the students in their audiences how many Chinese 
souls were going to hell each second because these students were not 
over there saving them. That mention of this should bring smiles to 
our lips today is as clear an indication as we could wish of the extent 
to which attitudes have changed. I do not mean to imply that Christians 
have adopted the liberal assumption, so prevalent in Hinduism, 
that all religions are merely different paths to the same summit. Leslie 
Newbiggin reflects the dominant position within the World Council 
of Churches when he says, "We must claim absoluteness and finality 
for Christ and His finished work, but that very claim forbids 
us to claim absoluteness and finality for our understanding of it". 
Newbiggin's qualification on the Christian claim is of considerable 
significance. The Roman Catholic Church has excommunicated one of 
its priests, Father Feeney, for insisting that there is no salvation 
outside the visible church. In mentioning this under "salvation 
reconsidered" I do not mean to imply that Roman Catholic doctrine 
has changed in this area but rather that it has become clearer to the 
world community what that doctrine is. 
When they say that under no circumstances would it ever be right to "permit" 
the termination of the human race by human action, because 
there could not possibly be any proportionate grave reason to justify 
such a thing, they know exactly what they mean. Of course, in prudential 
calculation, in balancing the good directly intended and done against 
the evil unintended and indirectly done, no greater precision can 
be forthcoming than the subject allows. Yet it seems clear that there 
can be no good sufficiently great, or evil repelled sufficiently grave, 
to warrant the destruction of mankind by man's own action.

I mean, however, that the moral theologian knows what he means by "permit". 
He is not talking in the main about probabilities, risks 
and danger in general. He is talking about an action which just as efficaciously 
does an evil thing (and is known certainly and unavoidably 
to lead to this evil result) as it efficaciously does some good. He 
is talking about double <effects,> of which the specific action causes 
directly the one and indirectly the other, but <causes> both; 
of which one is deliberately willed or intended and the other not intended 
or not directly intended, but still both are <done,> while the 
evil effect is, with equal consciousness on the part of the agent, foreknown 
to be among the consequences. This is what, in a technical sense, 
to "only permit" an evil result means. It means to <do it> 
and to know one is doing it, but as only a secondary if certain effect 
of the good one primarily does and intends. Of course, grave guiltiness 
may be imputed to the military action of any nation, or to the action 
of any leader or leaders, which for any supposed good "permits", 
in <this> sense, the termination of the human race by human action. 
Certainly, in analyzing an action which truly faced such alternatives, 
"it is <never> possible that no world would be preferable to 
some worlds, and there are in truth <no> circumstances in which the 
destruction of human life presents itself as a reasonable alternative".

Naturally, where one or the other of the effects of an action 
is uncertain, this has to be taken into account. Especially is this 
true when, because the good effect is remote and speculative while 
the evil is certain and grave, the action is prohibited. Presumably, 
if the reverse is the case and the good effect is more certain than the 
evil result that may be forthcoming, not only must the good and the 
evil be prudentially weighed and found proportionate, but also calculation 
of the probabilities and of the degree of certainty or uncertainty 
in the good or evil effect must be taken into account. There must 
not only be greater good than evil objectively in view, but also greater 
probability of actually doing more good than harm. If an evil which 
is certain and extensive and immediate may rarely be compensated for 
by a problematic, speculative, future good, by the same token not every 
present, certain, and immediate good (or lesser evil) that may have 
to be done will be outweighed by a problematic, speculative, and future 
evil. Nevertheless, according to the traditional theory, a man begins 
in the midst of action and he analyzes its nature and immediate cosequences 
before or while putting it forth and causing these consequences. 
He does not expect to be able to trammel up all the future consequences 
of his action. Above all, he does not debate mere contingencies, 
and therefore, if these are possibly dreadful, find himself forced 
into inaction. He does what he can and may and must, without regarding 
himself as lord of the future or, on the other hand, as covered with 
guilt by accident or unforeseen consequences or by results he did not 
"permit" in the sense explained. By contrast, a good deal of nuclear 
pacifism begins with the contingencies and the probabilities, and 
not with the moral nature of the action to be done; and by deriving 
legitimate decision backward from whatever may <conceivably> or possibly 
or probably result, whether by anyone's doing or by accident, 
it finds itself driven to inaction, to non-political action in politics 
and non-military action in military affairs, and to the not very surprising 
discovery that there are now no distinctions on which the defense 
of justice can possibly be based.   Mr& Philip Toynbee 
writes, for example, that "in terms of probability it is surely <as 
likely as not> that mutual fear will lead to accidental war in the near 
future <if the present situation continues>. If it continues indefinitely 
it is <nearly a statistical certainty> that a mistake will 
be made and that the devastation will begin". Against such a termination 
of human life on earth by human action, he then proposes as an 
alternative that we "negotiate at once with the Russians and get the 
best terms which are available", that we deliberately "negotiate 
from comparative weakness". He bravely attempts to face this alternative 
realistically, i&e&, by considering the worst possible outcome, 
namely, the total domination of the world by Russia within a few 
years. This would be by far the better choice, when "it is a question 
of <allowing> the human race to survive, possibly under the domination 
of a regime which most of us detest, or of <allowing> it to 
destroy itself in appalling and prolonged anguish". Nevertheless, the 
consequence of the policy proposed is everywhere subtly qualified: 
it is "a possible result, however improbable"; "the worst, and 
least probable" result; "if it didn't prevail <mankind> would 
still be given the opportunity of prevailing"; for "surely 
anything is better than a policy which allows for the <possibility> 
of nuclear war". If we have not thought and made a decision entirely 
in these terms, then we need to submit ourselves to the following 
"simple test": "Have we decided how we are to kill the other 
members of our household in the event of our being less injured than 
they are"? Thus, moral decision must be entirely deduced backward 
from the likely eventuality; it is no longer to be formulated in terms 
of the nature of present action itself, its intention, and proximate 
effect or the thing to be <done>.   Several of the replies 
to Mr& Toynbee, without conscious resort to the traditional terminology 
with regard to the permission of evil, succeed in restoring the 
actual context in which present moral and political decisions must be 
made, by distinguishing between choosing a great evil and choosing in 
danger of this evil. "It is worse for a nation to give in to evil 
**h than to run the risk of annihilation". "I am consciously prepared 
to run the continued risk of 'race suicide by accident' rather 
than accept the alternative certainty of race slavery by design. But 
I can only make this choice because I believe that the risk need 
not increase, but may be deliberately reduced" [by precautions against 
accidents or by limiting war?] "Quoting Mr& Kennan's 
phrase that anything would be better than a policy which led inevitably 
to nuclear war, he [Toynbee] says that anything is better than a 
policy which allows for the <possibility> of nuclear war". "If 
asked to choose between a terrible probability and a more terrible possibility, 
most men will choose the latter". "If **h Philip Toynbee 
is claiming that the choice lies between capitulation and the <risk> 
of nuclear war, I think he is right. I do not accept that the choice 
is between capitulation and the certainty of nuclear war". Even 
Professor Arnold Toynbee, agreeing with his son, does so in these 
terms: "Compared to continuing to incur a constant <risk> of 
the destruction of the human race, all other evils are lesser evils **h. 
Let us therefore put first things first, and make sure of preserving 
the human race at whatever the temporary price may be".   Mr& 
Philip Toynbee affirms at one point that <if> he shared the 
anticipations of Orwell in <Nineteen Eighty-Four, if> he believed 
Communism was not only evil but "also <irredeemably> evil", then 
he might "think it right to do anything rather than to take the 
risk of a communist world. Even a nuclear holocaust is a little less 
frightful to contemplate than a race of dehumanised humans occupying the 
earth until doomsday". No political order or economic system is 
so clearly contrary to nature. But one does not have to affirm the existence 
of an evil order irredeemable in that sense, or a static order 
in which no changes will take place in time, to be able truthfully to 
affirm the following fact: there has never been <justitia> imprinted 
in social institutions and social relationships except in the context 
of some <pax-ordo> preserved by clothed or naked force. On their 
way to the Heavenly City the children of God make use of the <pax-ordo> 
of the earthly city and acknowledge their share in responsibility 
for its preservation. Not to repel injury and uphold and improve 
<pax-ordo> means not simply to accept the misshapen order and injustice 
that challenges it at the moment, but also to start down the steep 
slope along which justice can find no place whereon to stand. Toynbee 
seems to think that there is some other way to give justice social 
embodiment. "I would far rather die after a Russian occupation of 
this country- by some deliberate act of refusal- than die uselessly 
by atomisation". Would such an act of refusal be useful? He does 
not mean, in fact he addresses himself specifically to reject the 
proposition, that "if we took the risk of surrendering, a new generation 
in Britain would soon begin to amass its strength in secret in order 
to reverse the consequences of that surrender". He wants to be 
"brutally frank and say that these rebellions <would> be hopeless- 
far, far more hopeless than was the Hungarian revolution of 1956". 
This is not a project for regaining the ground for limited war, by 
creating a monopoly in one power of the world's arsenal of unlimited 
weapons. It is a proposal that justice now be served by means other 
than those that have ever preconditioned the search for it, or preconditioned 
more positive means for attaining it, in the past. "It is 
no good recommending surrender rather than nuclear warfare with the proviso 
that surrender could be followed by the effective military resistance 
by occupied peoples. Hope for the future **h would lie in the 
natural longing of the human race for freedom and the right to develop". 
This is to surrender in advance to whatever attack may yet be mounted, 
to the very last; it is to stride along the steep slope downward. 
The only contrary action, in the future as in the past, runs the 
<risk> of war; and, now and in the future unlike in the past, any 
attempt to repel injury and to preserve any particular civilized attainment 
of mankind or its provisional justice runs some risk of nuclear 
warfare and the danger that an effect of it will, by human action, render 
this planet less habitable by the human race. That is why it is 
so very important that ethical analysis keep clear the problem of decision 
as to "permitted" effects, and not draw back in fright from 
any conceivable contingency or suffer paralysis of action before possibilities 
or probabilities unrelated, or not directly morally related, 
to what we can and may and must do as long as human history endures.

Finally, just as no different issues are posed for thoughtful 
analysis by the foreshortening of time that may yet pass before the end 
of human life on this earth, but only stimulation and alarm to the imagination, 
the same thing must be said in connection with the question 
of what we may perhaps already be doing, <by human action,> to accelerate 
this end. We should not allow the image of an immanent end brought 
about indirectly by our own action in the continuing human struggle 
for a just endurable order of existence to blind us to the fact that 
in some measure accelerating the end of our lease may be one consequence 
among others of many other of mankind's thrusts toward we know 
not what future.

MUCH MORE than shelter, housing symbolizes social status, 
a sense of "belonging", acceptance within a given group or neighborhood, 
identification with particular cultural values and social institutions, 
feelings of pride and worth, aspirations and hopes basic to 
human well-being. For almost one-sixth of the national population discrimination 
in the free selection of residence casts a considerable shadow 
upon these values assumed as self-evident by most Americans.

Few business groups in recent years have come under heavier pressure 
to face these realities than real estate brokers and home builders. 
This pressure has urged re-evaluation of the assumptions underlying 
their professional ethics; it has sought new sympathy for the human 
aspirations of racial minority groups in this country. It is not surprising 
that, as spokesman for real estate interests, the National Association 
of Real Estate Boards (~NAREB) and its local associations 
have sought to limit and often ignore much of this pressure.

How does the local realtor see himself in the context of housing 
restrictions based on race, religion or ethnic attachment? What 
does he conceive his role to be in this area of social unrest? What 
ought to be, what is his potential role as a force for constructive social 
change? What social, ethical and theological insights can the 
church and university help him bring to bear upon his situation?

Recently, a group of the faculty at Wesleyan University's Public 
Affairs Center sought some answers to these questions. Several 
New England realtors were invited to participate in a small colloquium 
of property lawyers, political scientists, economists, social psychologists, 
social ethicists and theologians. Here, in an atmosphere 
of forthrightness and mutual criticism, each sought to bring his particular 
insights to bear upon the question of discrimination in housing 
and the part each man present played in it.   For a number of years, 
Wesleyan has been drawing varied groups of political and business 
leaders into these informal discussions with members of the faculty 
and student body, attempting to explore and clarify aspects of their 
responsibility for public policy. This article presents our observations 
of that session, of the realtors as they saw themselves and as the 
faculty and students saw them.   Such conversation quickly reveals 
an ethically significant ambivalence in the self-images held by most 
realtors. Within the membership of this group, as has been found true 
of men in other professional or trade associations, the most ready 
portrayal of oneself to "the public" is that of a neutral agent simply 
serving the interests of a seller or buyer and mediating between 
them. Professional responsibility is seen to consist largely in serving 
the wishes of the client fairly and in an efficient manner. But as 
conversation goes on, particularly among the realtors themselves, another 
image emerges, that of considerable power and influence in the community. 
Obviously, much more than customer expectation is determining 
the realtor's role. Judgments are continually rendered regarding 
the potential buyers' income, educational level and above all, racial 
extraction; and whether these would qualify them for "congenial", 
"happy" relations to other people in certain community areas. 

#A NARROW PROFESSIONALISM#

How explicit such factors have been 
historically is evident in any chronology of restrictive covenant cases 
or in a review of ~NAREB's Code of Ethics Article 34 in 
the Code, adopted in 1924, states that "a Realtor should never be 
instrumental in introducing into a neighborhood a character of property 
or occupancy, members of any race or nationality, or any individuals 
whose presence will clearly be detrimental to property values in that 
neighborhood". Though the reference to race was stricken by the association 
in 1950, being an agent of such "detrimental" influences 
still appears as the cardinal sin realtors see themselves committed to 
avoid.   The rationale for this avoidance was most frequently 
expressed in economic terms; all feared the supposed stigma they believed 
would inevitably attach to any realtor who openly introduced non-white, 
particularly Negro, peoples into all-white, restricted areas. 
They would become tagged as men not interested in being purely real 
estate "professionals" but agitators for some kind of "cause" 
or "reform", and this was no longer to be a "pro".   Obviously 
what we are confronted with here is the identification of "professional" 
with narrow skills and specialization, the effective servicing 
of a client, rather than responsiveness to the wider and deeper 
meaning and associations of one's work. These men- for the most 
part educated in our "best" New England colleges, well established 
financially and socially in the community- under kindly but insistent 
probing, reveal little or no objective or explicit criteria or data 
for their generalizations about the interests and attitudes of the 
people they claim to serve, or about the public responses that actually 
follow their occasional breach of a "client-service relationship".

This narrow "professionalism" does not even fit the present 
realities of their situation, as the pressure of minorities and the 
power and respectability of the realtors increase. As our discussion 
continued, the inadequacy of the "client relationship" as an interpretation 
of their "way of operating" became evident. Realtors 
live in their communities as specialists in a given area of work, as 
members of social and professional organizations, as citizens and civic 
leaders, as church laymen, as university alumni, as newspaper readers, 
etc&. 
From such communal roles the realtor finds the substance that 
shapes his moral understanding.   It seems to us that choices exercised 
by realtors in moral situations center in at least three areas: 
(1) the various ways in which they interpret a particular social 
issue; (2) their pattern of involvement in the regular legal and political 
processes; and, most pervasively, (3) their interpretation of 
who is a "real pro", of what it means to be a professional man in 
a technical, fragmented society.   (1) Most of the realtors minimized 
their own understanding of and role in the racial issue, pleading 
that they only reflect the attitudes and intentions of their society. 
There is some reality to this; the Commission on Race and Housing 
concluded that "there is no reason to believe that real estate 
men are either more or less racially prejudiced, on the whole, than any 
other segment of the American population". But such a reaction obscures 
the powerful efforts made in the past by both ~NAREB and 
its local boards for the maintenance of restrictive clauses and practices. 
Also, it does not recognize the elements of choice and judgment 
continually employed.   Like business and university groups generally, 
these men had very limited knowledge of recent sociological and 
psychological studies and findings that might illumine the decisions 
they make. Realtors, both generally and in this group, have invariably 
equated residential integration with a decline in property values, 
a circumstance viewed with considerable apprehension.   Recent 
studies by the Commission on Race and Housing and others, however, 
point to a vast complex of factors that often do not warrant this conclusion. 
There are increasing numbers of neighborhoods that are integrated 
residentially without great loss of property values, the white population 
having taken the initiative in preparing the areas for an appreciation 
of the Negroes' desire for well-kept housing, privacy, etc&. 
Data on the decline of property values in an area after a new racial 
group enters it has to be assessed in terms of the trends in property 
values before the group comes in. Often they are able to get in 
only because the area is declining economically.   Significantly, 
no realtor and few of the faculty present were familiar with any of 
the six volumes (published by the University of California Press) 
that present the commission's findings. No one anticipates any radical 
shift in this situation, but questions concerning reading habits, 
the availability of such data and the places where it is discussed must 
surely be raised. The role of both church and university as sources 
of information and settings within which the implications of such information 
may be explored needs consideration.   Relevant "facts", 
however, 
extend beyond considerations of property values and maintenance 
of "harmonious" neighborhoods. Discussion of minority housing necessarily 
involves such basic issues as the intensity of one's democratic 
conviction and religious belief concerning equality of opportunity, 
the function and limitations of government in the securing of such 
equality, and the spotlight that world opinion plays upon local incidents 
of racial agitation and strife. #"AGAINST THE GRAIN OF CREATION"# 
(2) Realtors realize, of course, that they are involved in an 
increasingly complex legal and political system that is opening up opportunities 
for leverage on their relation to clients as well as opportunities 
for evasion of their responsibility for racial discrimination 
in housing. On the positive side, recent Federal action has largely 
undermined the legal sanction so long enjoyed by the segregationist position; 
anti-discriminatory statutes in housing have now been adopted 
by thirteen states and, while specific provisions have varied, the 
tendency is clearly toward expanding coverage.   Realtors in attendance 
at the colloquium expressed interest, for example, in Connecticut's 
new housing law as setting standards of equity that they would 
like "to have to obey", but in support of which none had been willing 
to go on public record. As far as they were aware, the Connecticut 
Association of Real Estate Boards had not officially opposed 
the bill's passage or lobbied in its support. (This has not been the 
case everywhere. In 1957, the Real Estate Boards of New York City 
actively opposed the then pending private housing anti-discrimination 
law. Official reasoning: the bill was a "wanton invasion 
of basic property rights".)   There are sins of omission as 
well as commission; the attitude adopted by realtors and their associations, 
either negative or positive, plays a large part in the public 
acceptance of such measures and the degree to which they may be effectively 
enforced. Judicial opinion since the Supreme Court decision 
on <Shelley v& Kraemer> (1948) has rendered racial restrictive 
covenants unenforcible. Such a decision should have placed a powerful 
weapon in the hands of the entire housing industry, but there is little 
evidence that realtors, or at least their associations, have repudiated 
the principle in such clauses.   In the states that have passed 
laws preventing discrimination in the sale or rental of housing, 
support by real estate associations for compliance and broadened coverage 
through additional legislation could help remove the label of "social 
reformism" that most realtors individually seem determined to 
avoid. But as yet, no real estate board has been willing officially 
to support such laws or to admit the permissibility of introducing minority 
buyers into all-white neighborhoods.   One of the roles of 
the social scientist, ethicist or theologian in our discussions with 
the realtors became that of encouraging greater awareness of the opportunities 
offered by the legal and political processes for the exercise 
of broad social responsibilities in their work. But responsiveness to 
these opportunities presumes that all of us judge the good as a human 
good and not simply as a professional, white, American good. Such 
judgments are meaningful only 
in so far as persons are members of a world, 
let us say a community, that embraces Scarsdale or Yonkers, but is 
also infinitely richer since it is all-inclusive.   That community 
of all creation is, then, the ultimate object of our loyalty and 
the concrete norm of all moral judgment. Racial discrimination is wrong, 
then, not because it goes against the grain of a faculty member trying 
to converse with a few realtors but because it goes against the 
grain of creation and against the will of the Creator. Thus, moral issues 
concerning the nature of the legal and political processes take 
on theological dimensions. 

#A FRAGMENTED SOCIETY#

(3) Over the years, 
individuals engaged in the sale of real estate have developed remarkable 
unity in the methods and practices employed. Most realtors and 
real estate brokers talk of themselves as "professional people" 
with the cultural and moral values held by the traditional professions. 
But what significance attaches to "professional", beyond the narrow 
sense of skillfulness in meeting a client's stated needs as already 
noted? Our faculty and students pressed this issue more than 
any other.   As a theologian in the group pointed out, a professional 
was, before the modern period of technical specialization, one who 
"professed" to be a bearer and critic of his culture in the use 
of his particular skills.

If we look about the world today, we can see clearly that there 
are two especially significant factors shaping the future of our civilization: 
<science> and <religion>. Science is placing in our 
hands the ultimate power of the universe, the power of the atom. Religion, 
or the lack of it, will decide whether we use this power to build 
a brave new world of peace and abundance for all mankind, or whether 
we misuse this power to leave a world utterly destroyed. How can we 
have the wisdom to meet such a new and difficult challenge?   We 
may feel pessimistic at the outlook. And yet there is a note of 
hope, 
because this same science that is giving us the power of the atom is 
also giving us atomic vision. We are looking inside the atom and seeing 
there a universe which is not material but something beyond the material, 
a universe that in a word is not matter but music. And it is 
in this new vision of the atom that we find an affirmation and an invigoration 
of our faith. 

#ATOMIC ENERGY#

To see this vision in perspective, 
we need first of all a clear idea of the magnitude of this new 
power from the atom. You know that I could hold right here in my 
hand the little chunk of uranium metal that was the heart of the bomb 
that dropped on Hiroshima. It was only about the size of a baseball; 
but packed in that metallic ball there was the explosive force of 
20,000 tons of ~TNT. That is enough ~TNT to fill the tower 
of the Empire State Building; and with the availability of bombs 
of that size, war became a new problem.   Now we might have restricted 
the use of uranium bombs by controlling the sources of uranium 
because it is found in only a few places in the world. But we had hardly 
started to adjust our thinking to this new uranium weapon when we 
were faced with the hydrogen bomb. Hydrogen is just as plentiful as 
uranium is scarce. We know that we have hydrogen in water; water is 
**f and the ~H stands for hydrogen; there is also hydrogen in wood 
and hydrogen in our bodies. I have calculated that if I could snap 
my fingers in one magic gesture to release the power of all the hydrogen 
in my body, I would explode with the force of a hundred bombs of 
the kind that fell on Hiroshima. I won't try the experiment, but 
I think you can see that if we all knew the secret and we could all let 
ourselves go, there would be quite an explosion. And then think how 
little hydrogen we have in us compared with the hydrogen in Delaware 
Bay or in the ocean beyond. Salt water is still **f, the same hydrogen 
is there. And the size of the ocean shows us the magnitude of the 
destructive power we hold in our hands today.   Of course, there 
is also an optimistic side to the picture. For if I knew the secret 
of letting this power in my body change directly into electricity, 
I could rent myself out to the electric companies and with just the power 
in my body I could light all the lights and run all the factories 
in the entire United States for some days. And think, if we all knew 
this secret and we could pool our power, what a wonderful public utility 
company we would make. With just the hydrogen of our bodies, we 
could run the world for years. Then think of Delaware Bay and the 
ocean and you see that we have a supply of power for millions of years 
to come. It is power with which we can literally rebuild the world, 
provide adequate housing, food, education, abundant living for everyone 
everywhere. 

#AN OCTILLION ATOMS#

Now let us see where this power 
comes from. To grasp our new view of the atom, we have to appreciate 
first of all how small the atom is. I have been trying to make this 
clear to my own class in chemistry. One night there were some dried 
peas lying on our kitchen table, and these peas looked to me like a little 
group of atoms; and I asked myself a question: Suppose I 
had the same number of peas as there are atoms in my body, how large an 
area would they cover?   I calculated first that there are 
about an octillion atoms in the average human body; that is a figure 
one with 27 ciphers, quite a large number. Then I calculated that a 
million peas would just about fill a household refrigerator; a billion 
peas would fill a small house from cellar to attic; a trillion peas 
would fill all the houses in a town of about ten thousand people; 
and a quadrillion peas would fill all the buildings in the city of Philadelphia.

I saw that I would soon run out of buildings at 
this rate, so I decided to take another measure- the whole state of 
Pennsylvania. Imagine that there is a blizzard over Pennsylvania, 
but instead of snowing snow, it snows peas; so we get the whole state 
covered with peas, about four feet deep. You can imagine what it would 
look like going out on the turnpike with the peas banked up against 
the houses and covering the cars; Pennsylvania thus blanketed would 
contain about a quintillion peas.   But we still have a long 
way to go. Next we imagine our blizzard raging over all the land areas 
of the entire globe- North America, South America, Europe, Asia, 
and Africa, all covered with peas four feet deep; then we have 
sextillion peas. Next we freeze over the oceans and cover the whole 
earth with peas, then we go out among the neighboring stars, collect 
250 planets each the size of the earth, and also cover each of these 
with peas four feet deep; and then we have septillion. Finally we 
go into the farthest reaches of the Milky Way; we get 250,000 planets; 
we cover each of these with our blanket of peas and then at last 
we have octillion peas corresponding in number to the atoms in the body. 
So you see how small an atom is and how complicated you are. 

#A 
SPECK- AND SPACE#

Now although an atom is small, we can still in 
imagination have a look at it. Let us focus on an atom of calcium from 
the tip of the bone of my finger and let us suppose that I swallow 
a magic <Alice in Wonderland> growing pill. I start growing rapidly 
and this calcium atom grows along with me. I shoot up through the 
roof, into the sky, past the clouds, through the stratosphere, out beyond 
the moon, out among the planets, until I am over a hundred and 
fifty million miles long. Then this atom of calcium will swell to something 
like a great balloon a hundred yards across, a balloon big enough 
to put a football field inside. And if you should step inside of such 
a magnified atom, according to the physics of forty years ago, you 
would see circulating over your head, down at the sides, and under your 
feet, some twenty luminous balls about the size of footballs. These 
balls are moving in great circles and ellipses, and are of course, the 
electrons, the particles of negative electricity which by their action 
create the forces that tie this atom of calcium to the neighboring 
atoms of oxygen and make up the solid structure of my finger bone.

Since these electrons are moving like planets, you may wonder whether 
there is an atomic sun at the center of the atom. So you look down 
there and you see a tiny, whirling point about the size of the head 
of a pin. This is the atomic sun, the atomic nucleus. Even if the 
atom were big enough to hold a football field, this nucleus is still 
only about the size of a pinhead. It is this atomic nucleus that contains 
the positive charge of electricity holding these negatively charged 
electrons in their orbits; it also contains nearly all the mass, 
and the atomic energy.   You may ask what else there is, and the 
answer is nothing- nothing but empty space. And since you are made 
of atoms, you are nothing much but empty space, too. If I could put 
your body in an imaginary atomic press and squeeze you down, squeeze 
these holes out of you in the way we squeeze the holes out of a sponge, 
you would get smaller and smaller until finally when the last hole 
was gone, you would be smaller than the smallest speck of dust that you 
could see on this piece of paper. Someone has remarked that this is 
certainly the ultimate in reducing. At any rate, it shows us how immaterial 
we are. 

#MUSIC OF THE SPHERES#

Now this 1920 view of the 
atom was on the whole a discouraging picture. For we believed that the 
electrons 
obeyed the law of mechanics and electrodynamics; and therefore 
the atom was really just a little machine; and in mechanics the 
whole is no more than the sum of the parts. So if you are made of 
atoms, you are just a big machine; and since the universe is also made 
of atoms, it is just a supermachine. And this would mean that we 
live in a mechanistic universe, governed by the laws of cause and effect, 
bound in chains of determinism that hold the universe on a completely 
predetermined course in which there is not room for soul or spirit 
or human freedom. And this is why so many scientists a half a century 
ago were agnostics or atheists.   Then came the scientific revolution 
in the late 1920's. A suggestion from Louis de Broglie, a 
physicist in France, showed us that these electrons are not point particles 
but waves. And to see the meaning of this new picture, imagine 
that you can put on more powerful glasses and go back inside the atom 
and have a look at it in the way we view it today. Now as you step 
inside, instead of seeing particles orbiting around like planets, you 
see waves and ripples very much like the ripples that you get on the surface 
of a pond when you drop a stone into it. These ripples spread 
out in symmetrical patterns like the rose windows of a great cathedral. 
And as the waves flow back and forth and merge with the waves from 
the neighboring atoms, you can put on a magic hearing aid and you hear 
music. It is a music like the music from a great organ or a vast orchestra 
playing a symphony. Harmony, melody, counterpoint symphonic structure 
are there; and as this music ebbs and flows, there is an antiphonal 
chorus from all the atoms outside, in fact from the atoms of 
the entire universe. And so today when we examine the structure of our 
knowledge of the atom and of the universe, we are forced to conclude 
that the best word to describe our universe is <music>.

The Island of Nantucket, part of the State of Massachusetts, 
lies about thirty-one miles southeast of its mother State. Some of 
the Island is sand and is not suitable for living. The Island folk 
have their living almost entirely from summer visitors; the rest is 
obtained from harbor scallops. During about three and a half months 
of the year, in the summer, there are three boats that run from the mainland 
to the Island carrying passengers, food, and cars; but the 
rest of the year only one boat is needed, which ties up at the mainland 
nights and makes the trip down to Nantucket in the daytime. This 
is a fine trip, too, on a good day. With Martha's Vineyard on one 
side and the open sea on the other, it makes an excellent trip of about 
three hours.

TO WHAT extent and in what ways did Christianity affect 
the United States of America in the nineteenth century? How far 
and in what fashion did it modify the new nation which was emerging 
in the midst of the forces shaping the revolutionary age? To what 
extent did it mould the morals and the social, economic, and political 
life and institutions of the country?   A complete picture is 
impossible- partly because of the limitations of space, partly because 
for millions of individuals who professed allegiance to the Christian 
faith data are unobtainable. Even more of an obstacle is the difficulty 
of separating the influence of Christianity from other factors.

Although a complete picture cannot be given, we can indicate 
some aspects of life into which the Christian faith entered as at 
least one creative factor. At times we can say that it was the major 
factor.   What in some ways was the most important aspect was the 
impact individually on the millions who constituted the nation. As 
we have seen, a growing proportion, although in 1914 still a minority, 
were members of churches. Presumably those who did not have a formal 
church connexion had also felt the influence of Christianity to a greater 
or less extent. Many of them had once been members of a church 
or at least had been given instruction in Christianity but for one or 
another reason had allowed the connexion to lapse. The form of Christianity 
to which they were exposed was for some the Protestantism of 
the older stock, for others the Protestantism of the nineteenth-century 
immigration; for still others, mostly of the nineteenth-century 
immigration, it was Roman Catholicism, and for a small minority it was 
Eastern Orthodoxy. Upon all of them played the intellectual, social, 
political, and economic attitudes, institutions, and customs of the 
nation. Upon most of these Christianity had left an impress and through 
them had had a share in making the individual what he was. Yet 
to determine precisely to what extent and exactly in what ways any individual 
showed the effects of Christianity would be impossible. At 
best only an approximation could be arrived at. To generalize for the 
entire nation would be absurd. For instance, we cannot know whether 
even for church members the degree of conformity to Christian standards 
of morality increased or declined as the proportion of church members 
in the population rose. The temptation is to say that, as the percentage 
of church members mounted, the degree of discipline exercised 
by the churches lessened and the trend was towards conformity to the general 
level. Yet this cannot be proved. We know that in the early part 
of the century many Protestant congregations took positive action 
against members who transgressed the ethical codes to which the majority 
subscribed. Thus Baptist churches on the frontier took cognizance 
of charges against their members of drunkenness, fighting, malicious 
gossip, lying, cheating, sexual irregularities, gambling, horse racing, 
and failure to pay just debts. If guilty, the offender might be excluded 
from membership. As church membership burgeoned, such measures 
faded into desuetude. But whether this was accompanied by a general 
lowering of the moral life of the membership we do not know.   What 
we can attempt with some hope of dependable conclusions is to point 
out the manner in which Christianity entered into particular aspects 
of the life of the nation. We have already hinted at the fashion in 
which Christianity contributed to education and so to intellectual life. 
We will now speak of the ways in which it helped shape the ideals 
of the country and of the manner in which it stimulated efforts to attain 
those ideals through reform movements, through programmes for bringing 
the collective life to the nation to conformity to Christian standards, 
and through leaders in the government.   Throughout the 
nineteenth century Christianity exerted its influence on American 
society as a whole primarily through the Protestantism of the older stock. 
By the end of the century the Roman Catholic Church was beginning 
to make itself felt, mainly through such institutions as hospitals 
but also through its attitude towards organized labour. In the twentieth 
century its influence grew, as did that of the Protestantism of 
the nineteenth-century immigration. 

#THE AMERICAN DREAM#

The ideals 
of the country were deeply indebted to the Protestantism of the 
older stock. Thus "America", the most widely sung of the patriotic 
songs, was written by a New England Baptist clergyman, Samuel Francis 
Smith (1808-1895), while a student in Andover Theological 
Seminary. With its zeal for liberty and its dependence on God it 
breathed the spirit which had been nourished on the Evangelical revivals. 
The great seal of the United States was obviously inspired by 
the Christian faith. Here was what was called the American dream, namely, 
the effort to build a structure which would be something new in 
history and to do so in such fashion that God could bless it. Later 
in the century the dream again found expression in the lines of Katherine 
Lee Bates (1859-1929), daughter and granddaughter of New England 
Congregational ministers, in her widely sung hymn, written in 
1893, "America the Beautiful", with the words "O beautiful 
for pilgrim feet whose stern impassioned stress a thoroughfare for freedom 
beat across the wilderness. America, America, God mend 
thy every flaw, confirm thy soul in self control, thy liberty in law 
**h. O beautiful for patriot dream that sees beyond the years thine 
alabaster cities gleam undimmed by human tears. America, America, 
God shed His grace on thee, and crown thy good with brotherhood from 
sea to shining sea".   The American dream was compounded of 
many strains. Some were clearly of Christian origin, among them the 
Great Awakening and other revivals which helped to make Christian 
liberty, Christian equality, and Christian fraternity the passion of 
the land. Some have seen revivalism and the search for Christian perfection 
as the fountain-head of the American hope. Here, too, must 
be placed Unitarianism and, less obviously from Christian inspiration, 
Emerson, Transcendentalism, and the idealism of Walt Whitman. We 
must also remember those who reacted against the dream as a kind of 
myth- among them Melville, Hawthorne, and Henry James the elder, 
all of them out of a Christian background. 

#REFORM MOVEMENTS#

With 
such a dream arising, at least in part, from the Protestant heritage 
of the United States and built into the foundations of the nation, 
it is not surprising that many efforts were made to give it concrete 
expression. A number were in the nature of movements to relieve or 
remove social ills.   Significantly, the initiation and leadership 
of a major proportion of the reform movements, especially those in 
the first half of the nineteenth century, came from men and women of 
New England birth or parentage and from either Trinitarian or Unitarian 
Congregationalism. Several of the movements were given a marked 
impetus by revivalism. Quakers, some from New England, had a larger 
share than their proportionate numerical strength would have warranted. 
We do well to remind ourselves that from men and women of New England 
ancestry also issued the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter 
Day Saints, the Seventh Day Adventists, Christian Science, the 
American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, the American 
Home Missionary Society, the American Bible Society, and New 
England theology. The atmosphere was one of optimism, of confidence 
in human progress, and of a determination to rid the world of its ills. 
The Hopkinsian universal disinterested benevolence, although holding 
to original sin and the doctrine of election, inspired its adherents 
to heroic endeavours for others, looked for the early coming of the 
Millennium, and was paralleled by the confidence in man's ability 
cherished by the Unitarians, Emerson, and the Transcendentalists.

We should recall the number of movements for the service of mankind 
which arose from the kindred Evangelicalism of the British Isles 
and the Pietism of the Continent of Europe- among them prison 
reform, anti-slavery measures, legislation for the alleviation of conditions 
of labour, the Inner Mission, and the Red Cross.   We 
cannot take the space to record all the efforts for the removal or alleviation 
of collective ills. A few of the more prominent must serve 
as examples of what a complete listing and description would disclose. 
Several were born in the early decades and persisted throughout the 
century. Others were ephemeral. Some disappeared with the attainment 
of their purpose. Still others sprang up late in the century to meet 
conditions which arose from fresh stages of the revolutionary age. 

#THE 
ANTI-SLAVERY MOVEMENT#

The movement to end Negro slavery began 
before 1815 and mounted after that year until, as a result of the Civil 
War, emancipation was achieved.   Long before 1815 the Christian 
conscience was leading some to declare slavery wrong and to act 
accordingly. For example, in 1693 the Philadelphia Yearly Meeting 
of Friends declared that its members should emancipate their slaves 
and in 1776 it determined to exclude from membership all who did not 
comply. In the latter year Samuel Hopkins, from whom the Hopkinsian 
strain of New England theology took its name, asked the Continental 
Congress to abolish slavery. As we have seen, Methodism early took 
a stand against slavery. Beginning at least as far back as 1789 various 
Baptist bodies condemned slavery.   After 1815 anti-slavery 
sentiment mounted, chiefly among Protestants and those of Protestant 
background of the older stock. The nineteenth-century immigration, 
whether Protestant or Roman Catholic, was not so much concerned, 
for very few if any among them held slaves: they were mostly in the 
Northern states where slavery had disappeared or was on the way out, 
or were too poverty-stricken to own slaves.   The anti-slavery movement 
took many forms. Benjamin Lundy (1789-1839), a Quaker, was 
a pioneer in preparing the way for anti-slavery societies. It was 
he who turned the attention of William Lloyd Garrison (1805-1879) 
to the subject. Garrison, Massachusetts born of Nova Scotian parentage, 
was by temperament and conviction a reformer. Chiefly remembered 
because of his incessant advocacy of "immediate and unconditional 
abolition", he also espoused a great variety of other causes- among 
them women's rights, prohibition, and justice to the Indians. Incurably 
optimistic, dogmatic, and utterly fearless, in his youth a devout 
Baptist, in spite of his friendship for the Quaker poet John 
Greenleaf Whittier (1807-1892) he eventually attacked the orthodox 
churches for what he deemed their cowardly compromising on the slavery 
issue and in his invariably ardent manner was emphatically unorthodox 
and denied the plenary inspiration of the Bible.   A marked 
impulse came to the anti-slavery movement through the Finney revivals. 
Finney himself, while opposed to slavery, placed his chief emphasis 
on evangelism, but from his converts issued much of the leadership of 
the anti-slavery campaign. Theodore Dwight Weld (1803-1895) was 
especially active. Weld was the son and grandson of New England Congregational 
ministers. As a youth he became one of Finney's band 
of evangelists and gave himself to winning young men. A strong temperance 
advocate, through the influence of a favorite teacher, Charles 
Stewart, another Finney convert, he devoted himself to the anti-slavery 
cause. A group of young men influenced by him enrolled in Lane Theological 
Seminary and had to leave because of their open anti-slavery 
position. The majority then went to the infant Oberlin. They and 
others employed some of Finney's techniques as they sought to win 
adherents to the cause. Weld contributed to the anti-slavery convictions 
of such men as Joshua R& Giddings and Edwin M& Stanton, 
enlisted John Quincy Adams, and helped provide ideas which underlay 
Harriet Beecher Stowe's <Uncle Tom's Cabin>. He shunned 
publicity for himself and sought to avoid fame.   Wendell Phillips 
(1811-1884), from a prominent Massachusetts family, in his teens 
was converted under the preaching of Lyman Beecher. Although he 
later broke with the churches because he believed that they were insufficiently 
outspoken against social evils, he remained a devout Christian. 
He was remembered chiefly for his fearless advocacy of abolition, 
but he also stood for equal rights for women, for opportunity for the 
freedmen, and for prohibition.   The anti-slavery movement and 
other contemporary reforms and philanthropies were given leadership 
and financial undergirding by Arthur Tappan (1786-1865) and his younger 
brother, Lewis Tappan (1788-1873).

Individuals possessing unusual gifts and great personal power 
were transmuted at death into awesome spirits; they were almost immediately 
worshipped for these newer, even more terrible abilities. Their 
direct descendants inherited not only their worldly fortunes, but also 
the mandate of their newfound power as spirits in the other half of 
the universe. Royal lineages could be based on extraordinary worldly 
achievements translated into eternal otherworldly power.   Thus, 
the emperor could draw on sources not available to those with less 
puissant ancestors. But this eminence was not without its weighty 
responsibilities. 
Since he possessed more power in an interdependent universe 
of living beings and dead spirits, the emperor had to use it for 
the benefit of the living. The royal ritual generated power into the 
other world: it also provided the living with a way to control the 
spirits, and bring their powers directly to bear on the everyday affairs 
of the world. Proper ritual observance at any level of society was 
capable of generating power for use in the spirit world; but naturally, 
the royal ritual, which provided unusual control over already supremely 
powerful divine spirits, was held responsible for regulating the 
universe and insuring the welfare of the kingdom.   This is the 
familiar system of "cosmic government". The Chinese emperor, by 
proper observance of ritual, manifested divine powers. He regulated 
the dualities of light and darkness, <Yang> and <Yin>, which are 
locked in eternal struggle. By swaying the balance between them, he 
effected the alternation of the seasons. His power was so great that 
he even promoted and demoted gods according to whether they had given 
ear or been deaf to petitions.   In this system, no man is exempt 
from obligations. Failure in daily moral and ethical duties to one's 
family, outrages to community propriety, any departure from rigid 
standards of moral excellence were offenses against the dead. And to 
offend the dead meant to incur their wrath, and thus provoke the unleashing 
of countrywide disasters. The family home was, in fact, a temple; 
and the daily duties of individuals were basically religious in 
nature. The dead spirits occupied a prominent place in every hope and 
in every fear.   The common belief was that there existed one 
moral order, which included everything. The dead controlled the material 
prosperity of the living, and the living adhered to strict codes of 
conduct in order not to weaken that control. Men believed they could 
control nature by obeying a moral code. If the moral code were flouted, 
the proper balance of the universe would be upset, and the disastrous 
result could be floods, plague, or famine.   Modern Westerners 
have difficulty comprehending this fusion of moral and material, 
largely because in the West the historical trend has been to deny the 
connection. Living in urban conditions, away from the deadweight of 
village constraint and the constrictions of a thatched-roof world view, 
the individual may find it possible, say, to commit adultery not only 
without personal misgivings, but also without suffering any adverse 
effects in his worldly fortunes. Basing action on the empirical determination 
of cause and effect provides a toughness and bravado that no 
powerful otherworldly ancestor could ever impart- plus the added liberation 
from the constraint of silent burial urns.   In China, 
the magical system par excellence was Taoism. The Taoists were Quietist 
mystics, who saw an unchanging unity- the Tao- underlying 
all phenomena. It was this timeless unity that was all-important, and 
not its temporary manifestations in the world of reality. The Taoists 
believed the unity could be influenced by proper magical manipulation; 
in other words, they were actually an organization of magicians.

Mahayana Buddhism was no exception to these prevailing magical 
concepts. After this form of Indian Buddhism had been introduced 
into China, it underwent extensive changes. During its flowering in 
the sixth to the eighth centuries, Mahayana offered a supernatural package 
to the Chinese which bears no resemblance to the highly digested 
philosophical Zen morsels offered to the modern Western reader. Mahayana 
had gods, and magic, a pantheon, heavens and hells, and gorgeously 
appareled priests, monks, and nuns, all of whom wielded power over 
souls in the other world. The self-realized Mahayana saint possessed 
superhuman powers and magic. The Mahayana that developed in the 
north was a religion of idolatry and coarse magic, that made the world 
into a huge magical garden. In its monastic form, Mahayana was merely 
an organization of magic-practicing monks (<bonzes>), who catered 
to the Chinese faith in the supernatural.   Nonmagical Confucianism 
was a secular, rational philosophy, but even with this different 
orientation it could not escape from the ethos of a cosmic government. 
Confucianism had its own magic in the idea that virtue had power. 
If a man lived a classical life, he need not fear the spirits- for 
only lack of virtue gave the spirits power over him. But let us not be 
mistaken about Confucian "virtue"; this was not virtue as we 
understand the word today, and it did not mean an abandonment of the belief 
in magic manipulation. To the Confucian, "virtue" simply meant 
mastery and correct observance of three hundred major rules of ritual 
and three thousand minor ones. Propriety was synonymous with ritual 
observance, the mark of a true gentleman. To live correctly in an 
interdependent moral and material universe of living and dead was decisive 
for man's fate.   This, in brief, was the historical background 
out of which Zen emerged. Promoters of Zen to the West record 
its ancestry, and recognize that Zen grew out of a combination of 
Taoism and Indian Mahayana Buddhism. But the "marvelous person" 
that is supposed to result from Zen exhibits more Chinese practicality 
than Indian speculation- he possesses magical powers, and can 
use them to order nature and to redeem souls. Proponents of Zen to 
the West emphasize disproportionately the amount of Mahayana Buddhism 
in Zen, probably in order to dignify the indisputably magical Taoist 
ideas with more respectable Buddhist metaphysic. But in the Chinese 
mind, there was little difference between the two- the <bonzes> 
were no more metaphysical than a magician has to be.   Actually, 
Zen owes more to Chinese Quietism than it does to Mahayana Buddhism. 
The Ch'an (Zen) sect may have derived its metaphysic from 
Mahayana, but its psychology was pure early Taoist. This is well 
evidenced 
by the Quietist doctrines carried over in Zen: the idea of 
the inward turning of thought, the enjoinder to put aside desires and 
perturbations so that a return to purity, peace, and stillness- a 
union with the Infinite, with the Tao- could be effected. In fact, 
the antipathy to outward ceremonies hailed by modern exponents as so 
uniquely characteristic of the "direct thinking" Zennist was a feature 
of Taoism. So, too, was the insistence on the relativity of the 
external world, and the ideas that language and things perceived by 
consciousness were poor substitutes indeed for immediate perception by 
pure, indwelling spirit: the opposition of pure consciousness to ratiocinating 
consciousness.   Zen maintains that cognitive things 
are only the surface of experience. One of its features attractive 
to the West is its irreverence for tradition and dogma and for sacred 
texts. One patriarch is supposed to have relegated sacred scriptures 
for use in an outhouse. But this is not the spirit of self-reliant freedom 
of action for which the Westerner mistakes it. It is simply that 
in Taoist tradition- as in all good mysticisms- books, words, 
or any other manifestations that belong to the normal state of consciousness 
are considered only the surface of experience. The truth- the 
Eternal Truth- is not transmittable by words. Reality is considered 
not only irrelevant to the acquisition of higher knowledge, but 
a positive handicap. The technique of reality confusion- the use of 
paradox and riddles to shake the mind's grip on reality- originated 
with fourth and third century B&C& Chinese Quietism: the 
<koan> is not basically a new device.   It is important for an 
understanding of Zen to realize that the esoteric preoccupations of 
the select few cannot be the doctrine of the common man. In the supernatural 
atmosphere of cosmic government, only the ruling elite was ever 
concerned with a kingdom-wide ordering of nature: popular religion 
aimed at more personal benefits from magical powers. And this is only 
natural- witness the haste with which modern man gobbles the latest 
"wonder drug". Early Chinese anchoritism was theoretically aimed 
at a mystic pantheist union with the divine, personal salvation being 
achieved when the mystical recluse united with divine essence. But 
this esoteric doctrine was lost in the shuffle to acquire special powers. 
The anchorite strove, in fact, to magically influence the world 
of spirits in the same way that the divine emperor manifested his power. 
Thus, the Mahayana metaphysic of mystical union for salvation was 
distilled down to a bare self-seeking, and for this reason, the mystic 
in Asia did not long remain in isolated contemplation. As the Zen 
literature reveals, as soon as an early Zen master attained fame in 
seclusion, he was called out into the world to exercise his powers. 
The early anchorite masters attracted disciples because of their presumed 
ability to perform miracles.   Exponents of Zen often insist 
that very early Zen doctrine opposed the rampant supernaturalism 
of China, and proposed instead a more mature, less credulous view of 
the universe. In support of this, stories from the early literature are 
cited to show that Zen attacks the idea of supernatural power. But 
actually these accounts reveal the supernatural powers that the masters 
were in fact supposed to possess, as well as the extreme degree of 
popular credulity: "Hwang Pah (O baku), one day going up Mount 
Tien Tai **h which was believed to have been inhabited by Arhats 
with supernatural powers, met with a monk whose eyes emitted strange light. 
They went along the pass talking with each other for a short while 
until they came to a river roaring with torrent. There being no bridge, 
the master had to stop at the shore; but his companion crossed 
the river walking on the water and beckoned to Hwang Pah to follow 
him. Thereupon Hwang Pah said: "If I knew thou art an Arhat, 
I would have doubled you up before thou got over there"! The monk 
then understood the spiritual attainment of Hwang Pah, and praised 
him as a true Mahayanist. (1)"   A second tale shows still 
more clearly the kind of powers a truly spiritual monk could possess: 
"On one occasion Yang Shan (Kyo-zan) saw a stranger monk flying 
through the air. When that monk came down and approached him with a 
respectful salutation, he asked: "Where art thou from"? "Early 
this morning", replied the other, "I set out from India". 
"Why", said the teacher, "art thou so late"? "I stopped", 
responded the man, "several times to look at beautiful sceneries". 
"Thou mayst have supernatural powers", exclaimed Yang Shan, 
"yet thou must give back the Spirit of Buddha to me". Then 
the monk praised Yang Shan saying: "I have come over to China 
in order to worship Manjucri, and met unexpectedly with Minor Shakya", 
and after giving the master some palm leaves he brought from India, 
went back through the air. (2)"   In the popular Chinese 
mind, Ch'an (Zen) was no exception to the ideas of coarse magic that 
dominated.   A closer look at modern Zen reveals many magical 
carryovers that are still part of popular Zen attitudes. To the 
Zen monk the universe is still populated with "spiritual beings" 
who have to be appeased. Part of the mealtime ritual in the Zendo consists 
in offerings of rice to the spiritual beings". Modern Zen presentation 
to the West insists on the anti-authoritarian, highly pragmatic 
nature of the Zen belief- scriptures are burned to make fire, 
action is based on direct self-confidence, and so on. This picture 
of extreme self-reliant individuation is difficult to reconcile with such 
Zendo formulas as: "O you, demons and other spiritual beings, 
I now offer this to you, and may this food fill up the ten quarters 
of the world and all the demons and other spiritual beings be fed therewith. 
(3)"

Pope Leo /13,, on the 13th day of December 1898, granted 
the following indulgences: "An indulgence of three hundred days is 
granted to all the Faithful who read the Holy Gospels at least a 
quarter of an hour. A Plenary Indulgence under the usual conditions 
is granted once a month for the daily reading". Pope Pius the Sixth, 
at Rome, in april, 1778, wrote the following: "The faithful 
should be excited to the reading of the Holy Scriptures: For these 
are the most abundant sources which ought to be left open to everyone, 
to draw from them purity of morals and of doctrine, to eradicate 
errors which are so widely disseminated in these corrupt times". The 
American Bishops assembled at the Third Plenary Council of Baltimore 
urged the Catholic people to read the Holy Bible. "We hope", 
they said, "that no family can be found amongst us without a 
correct version of the Holy Scriptures". They recommended, also, 
that "at a fixed hour, let the entire family be assembled for night 
prayers, followed by a short reading of the Holy Scriptures".

Since the Catholic Church expresses such desire that the Sacred 
Scriptures be read, the following taken from the Holy Bible (New 
Catholic Edition) will prove a means of grace and a source of great 
spiritual blessing. 

#THE NEED OF THE NEW BIRTH#

Do not wonder that 
I said to thee, "You must be born again". St& John 3:7. 

_THE NEW BIRTH IS NECESSARY BECAUSE GOD IS HOLY._ But as the One 
who called you is holy, be you also holy in all your behavior; for 
it is written, You shall be holy, because I am holy. /1, St& Peter 
1:15, 16.   Holiness without which no man will see God. 
Hebrews 12:14. _THE NEW BIRTH IS NECESSARY BECAUSE ALL HAVE SINNED._ 
As it is written, There is not one just man; there is none 
who understands; there is none who seeks after God. All have gone 
astray together; **h All have sinned and have need of the glory of 
God. Romans 3:10-12, 23. _THE NEW BIRTH IS NECESSARY BECAUSE THE 
NATURAL MAN IS SPIRITUALLY DEAD AND BLIND._ Therefore as through 
one man sin entered into the world and through sin death, and thus death 
has passed unto all men because all have sinned. Romans 5:12.

You also, when you were dead by reason of your offenses and sins. 
Ephesians 2:1.   And if our gospel also is veiled, it is veiled 
only to those who are perishing. In their case, the god of this 
world [Satan] has blinded their unbelieving minds, that they should 
not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image 
of God. /2, Corinthians 4:3, 4.   For his workmanship 
we are, created in Christ Jesus. Ephesians 2:10. _THE NEW BIRTH 
IS EFFECTED THROUGH THE WORD OF GOD_ For you have been reborn, 
not from corruptible seed but from incorruptible, through the word of 
God. /1, St& Peter 1:23.   Of his own will he has begotten 
us by the word of truth. St& James 1:18.   Amen, amen, 
I say to thee, unless a man be born again of water [symbol of the 
Word of God, see Ephesians 5:26] and the Spirit, he cannot enter 
into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; 
and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. St& John 3:5, 
6. 

#EVIDENCES OF THE NEW BIRTH#


_IF WE ARE BORN OF GOD WE HAVE 
FAITH IN CHRIST AS THE ONLY SAVIOUR._ Everyone who believes that 
Jesus is the Christ is born of God. /1, St& John 5:1.

As many as received him **h were born **h of God. St& John 1:12, 
13. _IF WE ARE BORN OF GOD WE DO NOT PRACTICE SIN AS A HABIT._ 
Whoever is born of God does not commit sin [That is, he does not 
practice sin. Cf& /1, St& John 2:1]. /1, St& John 3:9.

We know that no one who is born of God commits sin. /1, 
St& John 5:18. [The new nature, received at the time of regeneration, 
is divine and holy, and as the believer lives under the power 
of this new nature he does not practice sin.] _IF WE ARE BORN OF 
GOD WE PRACTICE RIGHTEOUSNESS._ If you know that he [God] is just 
[righteous], know that everyone also who does what is just [righteous] 
has been born of him. /1, St& John 2:29. _IF WE ARE 
BORN OF GOD WE LOVE GOD._ Everyone who loves is born of God, and 
knows God. /1, St& John 4:7. _IF WE ARE BORN OF GOD WE LOVE 
THE BRETHREN._ We know that we have passed from death to life, because 
we love the brethren. He who does not love abides in death. /1, 
St& John 3:14. _IF WE ARE BORN OF GOD WE OVERCOME THE WORLD._ 
All that is born of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory 
that overcomes the world, our faith. /1, St& John 5:4. 

_IF WE ARE BORN OF GOD WE GROW IN [NOT INTO, BUT IN] GRACE._ But 
grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. 
/2, St& Peter 3:18. _IF WE ARE BORN OF GOD WE PERSEVERE UNTO 
THE END._ I am convinced of this, that he who has begun a good work 
in you will bring it to perfection until the day of Christ Jesus. 
Philippians 1:6.   Now to him who is able to preserve you without 
sin and to set you before the presence of his glory, without blemish, 
in gladness, to the only God our Savior, through Jesus Christ 
our Lord, belong glory and majesty, dominion and authority, before 
all time, and now, and forever. St& Jude 24. _THE NEW BIRTH IS 
NECESSARY BECAUSE THE SPIRITUAL KINGDOM REQUIRES A SPIRITUAL NATURE._ 
Jesus answered and said to him [Nicodemus] "Amen, amen, I say 
to thee, unless a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God". 
**h "Amen, amen, I say to thee, unless a man be born again 
of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That 
which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of 
the Spirit is spirit. Do not wonder that I said to thee, 'You must 
be born again'". St& John 3:3, 5-7. 

#THE NATURE OF THE 
NEW BIRTH#


_THE NEW BIRTH IS A NEW CREATION._ For in Christ Jesus 
neither circumcision nor uncircumcision but a new creation is of 
any account. Galatians 6:15.   If then any man is in Christ, 
he is a new creature [literally, "He is a new creation"], the 
former things have passed away; behold, they are made new! /2, Corinthians 
5:17.   For by grace you have been saved through faith; 
and that not from yourselves, for it is the gift of God; not 
as the outcome of works, lest anyone may boast. For his workmanship 
we are, created in Christ Jesus. Ephesians 2:8-10. _THE NEW BIRTH 
IS THE IMPLANTATION OF A NEW LIFE._ I came that they may have life. 
St& John 10:10.   He who has the Son has the life. He 
who has not the Son has not the life. /1, St& John 5:12.

He who believes in the Son [Jesus Christ, the Son of God], 
has everlasting life. St& John 3:36. _THE NEW BIRTH IS THE 
IMPARTATION OF THE DIVINE NATURE._ Through which he has granted us 
the very great and precious promises, so that through them you may become 
partaker of the divine nature. /2, St& Peter 1:4. _THE NEW 
BIRTH IS CHRIST LIVING IN YOU BY FAITH._ Christ in you, your hope 
of glory. Colossians 1:27.   It is now no longer I that live, 
but Christ lives in me. And the life that I now live in the flesh, 
I live in the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself 
up for me. Galatians 2:20.   To have Christ dwelling through 
faith in your hearts. Ephesians 3:17. _THE NEW BIRTH IS MIRACULOUS 
AND MYSTERIOUS._ The wind blows where it will, and thou hearest 
its sound but dost not know where it comes from or where it goes. 
So is everyone who is born of the Spirit. St& John 3:8. _THE 
NEW BIRTH IS IMMEDIATE AND INSTANTANEOUS._ Amen, amen, I say to 
you, he who hears my word, and believes him who sent me, has life everlasting, 
and does not come to judgment, but has passed from death to 
life. St& John 5:24. 

#THE MEANS OF THE NEW BIRTH#


_THE NEW 
BIRTH IS A WORK OF GOD._ But to as many as received him he gave the 
power of becoming sons of God; to those who believe in his name: 
Who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the 
will of man, but of God. St& John 1:12, 13. 

#A FINAL WORD# 

You may be very religious, a good church member, an upright, honest 
and sincere person; you may be baptized, confirmed, reverent and worshipful; 
you may attend mass, do penance, say prayers and zealously 
keep all the sacraments and ceremonies of the church; you may have 
the final and extreme unction but if you are not born again you are lost 
and headed for hell and eternal punishment. You cannot be saved; 
you cannot go to heaven unless you are born again. Our blessed Lord 
Jesus Christ, the sinless Son of God, who could not lie, said, 
"Amen, 
amen, I say to thee, unless a man be born again, he cannot see 
the kingdom of God" (St& John 3:3). "You must be born again" 
(St& John 3:7).   Being convinced that salvation is 
alone by accepting Christ as Saviour, and being convicted by the Holy 
Spirit of my lost condition, I do repent of all effort to be saved 
by any form of good works, and just now receive Jesus as my personal 
Saviour and salvation as a free gift from Him.

YOU MAY DO AS YOU 
PLEASE with God now. It is permitted. God placed Himself in men's 
hands when He sent Jesus Christ into the world as perfect God 
and perfect Man in one Being. He was then in man's hands. They 
cursed Him. It was permitted. Men spit on Him. God allowed it. 
They called Him a devil. God withheld His wrath. Finally men arrested 
Him, gave Him a mock trial, flogged Him, nailed Him on a cross 
and hung Him between earth and heaven; and God allowed it.

You can do likewise though Christ is not bodily present. You can 
ignore Him. You can ignore His Book, the Bible, and His church. 
You 
can laugh at His blood-bought salvation, curse His followers, and 
laugh at hell. It is permitted. The eternal Christ may knock at your 
soul's door, calling you to give up sin and prepare for heaven. 
You may refuse Him, spit on Him, call Him a devil, curse Him. It 
is permitted. You may take His name upon your lips in oaths and curses 
if you so choose. He is in your hands- <now>.   On the 
other hand, you may seek His favor, humble yourself before Him and beg 
His mercy, implore His forgiveness, forsake your sins, and abandon 
your whole life to Him. He has said, "Behold, I stand at the door, 
and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will 
come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me" (Revelation 
3:20). The choice is up to you. The latch is on your side of the 
door. The choice is yours: the revellings and banquetings of this 
world or quiet communion with God; the ever burning lusts of the flesh 
or the powerful victory of Holy Spirit discipline. The choice is 
yours: God is in your hands, <now>.   God has already set 
the day when <you will be in His hands>. What He does with you <then> 
depends on what you do with Him <now>. <Then> it will be 
a "fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God" if you 
have abused Him in your hands. 
I am a magazine; my name is Guideposts; this issue that you are 
reading marks my 15th anniversary.   When I came into being, 15 
years ago, I had one primary purpose: to help men and women everywhere 
to know God better, and through knowing Him better to become happier 
and more effective people. That purpose has never changed.

When you read me, you are holding in your hands the product of many 
minds and hearts. Some of the people who speak through my pages are 
famous; others unknown. Some work with their hands. Some have walked 
through pain and sorrow to bring you their message of hope. Some 
are so filled with gratitude, for the gift of life and the love of God, 
that their joy spills out on the paper and brightens the lives of thousands 
whom they have never known, and will never see.   Fifteen 
years ago, there were no Guideposts at all. This month a million 
Guideposts will circulate all over the world. Experts in the publishing 
field consider this astounding. They do not understand how a small 
magazine with no advertising and no newsstand sale could have achieved 
such a following.   To me, the explanation is very simple. I 
am not doing anything, of myself. I am merely a channel for **h <something>.

What is this something? I cannot define it fully. 
It is the force in the universe that makes men love goodness, even 
when they turn away from it. It is the power that holds the stars in 
their orbits, but allows the wind to bend a blade of grass. It is the 
whisper in the heart that urges each one to be better than he is. It 
is mankind's wistful yearning for a world of justice and peace.

All things are possible to God, but He chooses- usually- to 
work through people. Sometimes such people sense that they are being 
used; sometimes not.   Fifteen years ago, troubled by the rising 
tide of materialism in the post-war world, a businessman and a minister 
asked themselves if there might not be a place for a small magazine 
in which men and women, regardless of creed or color, could set 
forth boldly their religious convictions and bear witness to the power 
of faith to solve the endless problems of living.   The businessman 
was Raymond Thornburg. The minister was Norman Vincent Peale. 
Neither had any publishing experience, but they had faith in their 
idea. They borrowed a typewriter, raised about $2,000 in contributions, 
hired a secretary, persuaded a couple of young men to join them for 
almost no pay **h and began mailing out a collection of unstapled leaflets 
that they called Guideposts.   Compared to the big, established 
magazines, my first efforts seemed feeble indeed. But from the 
start they had two important ingredients: sincerity and realism. The 
people who told the stories were sincere. And the stories they told 
were true.   For example, early in my life, when one of my editorial 
workers wanted to find out how churches and philanthropic organizations 
met the needs of New York's down-and-outers, he didn't 
just ask questions. Len LeSourd went and lived in the slums as a sidewalk 
derelict for ten days.   That was nearly 13 years ago. Len 
LeSourd is my executive editor today.   Many of you are familiar, 
I'm sure, with the story of my early struggles: the fire 
in January, 1947, that destroyed everything- even our precious list 
of subscribers. The help and sympathy that were forthcoming from everywhere. 
The crisis later on when debts seemed about to overwhelm me.

That was when a remarkable woman, Teresa Durlach, came to my 
aid- not so much with money, as with wisdom and courage. "You're 
not living up to your own principles", she told my discouraged people. 
"You're so preoccupied that you've let your faith grow dim. 
What do you want- a hundred thousand subscribers? Visualize 
them, then, believe you are getting them, and you <will> have them"!

And the 100,000 subscribers became a reality. And then 500,000. 
And now a million January Guideposts are in circulation.

With our growth came expansion into new fields of service. Today 
more than a thousand industries distribute me to their employees. They 
say all personnel have spiritual needs which Guideposts helps to 
meet. Hundreds of civic clubs, business firms and individuals make me 
available to school teachers throughout the land. They say it helps 
them bring back into schools the spiritual and moral values on which this 
country was built.   Thousands of free copies are sent each 
month to chaplains in the Armed Forces, to prison libraries and to hospitals 
everywhere. Bedridden people say I am easy to hold- and read. 
Three years ago it became possible to finance a Braille edition 
for blind readers.   Throughout these exciting years I have been 
fortunate for, although I have never offered great financial inducements, 
talent has found its way to me: William Boal who so ably organizes 
business operations; John Beach who guides circulation; 
Irving Granville and Nelson Rector who travel widely calling on business 
firms.   Searching for the best in spiritual stories, my 
roving editors cover not only the country, but the whole world. Glenn 
Kittler has been twice to Africa, once spending a week with Dr& 
Albert Schweitzer. Last summer John and Elizabeth Sherrill were 
in Alaska. Van Varner recently returned from Russia.   Twice 
a month the editorial staff meets in New York for an early supper, 
then a long evening of idea-exchange. Around the table sit Protestant, 
Catholic, and Jew. Each contributes something different, and something 
important: Ruth Peale, her wide experience in church work; 
Sidney Fields, years of experience as a New York columnist; Catherine 
Marshall LeSourd the insight that has made her books world-famous 
and Norm Mullendore, the keen perception of an advertising 
executive.   There are people who travel long distances to assure 
my continued existence. Elaine St& Johns may fly in from the West 
Coast for the editorial staff meetings. Starr Jones gets up every 
morning at five o'clock, milks his family cow, attends to farm chores, 
and then takes a two-hour train trip to New York. Arthur Gordon 
comes once a month all the way from Georgia.   We have also 
seen the power of faith at work among us. Rose Weiss, who handles all 
the prayer-requests that we receive, answering each letter personally, 
has the serene selflessness that comes from suffering: she has had 
many major operations, and now gets about in a limited way on braces 
and crutches. Recently, John Sherrill was stricken with one of the 
deadliest forms of cancer. We prayed for John, during surgery, we 
asked others to pray; all over the country a massive shield of prayer 
was thrown around him. Today the cancer is gone.   Perhaps it 
is not fair to mention some people without mentioning all. But, you 
see, those who are not mentioned will not resent it. That is the kind 
of people they are.   Perhaps you think the editorial meetings 
are solemn affairs, a little sanctimonious? Not so. Serious, yes, 
but also much laughter. Sharp division of opinion, too, and strenuous 
debate. There are brain-wracking searches for the right word, the best 
phrase, the most helpful idea. And there is also something intangible 
that hovers around the table. A good word for it is fellowship. 
A shorter word is love.   Each meeting starts with a prayer, offered 
spontaneously by one member of the group. It takes many forms, 
this prayer, but in essence it is always a request for guidance, for open 
minds and gentle hearts, for honesty and sincerity, for the wisdom 
and the insights that will help Guideposts' readers.   For you, 
readers, are an all-important part of the spiritual experiment that 
is Guideposts. I need your support, your criticism, your encouragement, 
your prayers.   I am a magazine; my name is Guideposts. 
My message, today, is the same as it was 15 years ago: that there 
is goodness in people, and strength and love in God.   May He 
bless you all.

HAVANA was filled with an excitement which you could see 
in the brightness of men's eyes and hear in the pitch of their voices. 
The hated dictator Batista had fled. Rumors flew from lip to lip 
that Fidel Castro was on his way to Havana, coming from the mountains 
where he had fought Batista for five years. Already the city was 
filled with Barbudos, the bearded, war-dirty Revolutionaries, carrying 
carbines, waving to the crowds that lined the Prado.   And 
then Castro himself did come, bearded, smiling; yet if you looked closely 
you'd see that his eyes did not pick up the smile on his lips.

At first I was happy to throw the support of our newspaper 
behind this man. I am sure that Castro was happy, too, about that support. 
<Diario de la Marina> was the oldest and most influential paper 
in Cuba, with a reputation for speaking out against tyranny. My 
grandfather had been stoned because of his editorials. My own earliest 
memories are of exiles: my three brothers and I were taken often 
to the United States "to visit relatives" while my father stayed 
on to fight the dictator Machado.   When it was my turn, I, too, 
printed the truth as I knew it about Batista, and rejoiced to see 
his regime topple. None of us was aware that the biggest fight was 
still ahead.   I was full of hope as Fidel Castro came into Havana. 
Within a week, however, I began to suspect that something was 
wrong. For Castro was bringing Cuba not freedom, but hatred. He spent 
long hours before the ~TV spitting out promises of revenge. He 
showed us how he dealt with his enemies: he executed them before 
~TV cameras. On home sets children were watching the death throes 
of men who were shot before the paredon, the firing wall.   Castro's 
reforms? He seemed bent on coupling them with vengeance. New 
schools were rising, but with this went a harsh proclamation: any 
academic degree earned during Batista's regime was invalid. 
Economic aid? He had promised cheaper housing: arbitrarily he cut 
all rents in half, whether the landlord was a millionaire speculator 
or a widow whose only income was the rental of a spare room. Under 
another law, hundreds of farms were seized. Farm workers had their wages 
cut almost in half. Of this, only 50 cents a day was paid in cash, 
the rest in script usable only in "People's Stores".

A 
suspicion was growing that Fidel Castro was a Communist. In my mind, 
I began to review: his use of hate to gain support; his People's 
Courts; his division of society into two classes, one the hero, 
the other the villain. But most disturbing of all were the advisers 
he called to sit with him in the Palace; many came from Communist 
countries.   What should I do about it, I asked myself? 
I had watched Castro handling his enemies before the paredon. There 
was no doubt in my mind that if I crossed him, mobs would appear outside 
our windows shouting "Paredon! Paredon! **h"   What 
should I do? I was proud of the new buildings which housed <Diario> 
now: the rotogravures, gleaming behind glass doors; the thump 
and whir of our new presses. Here was a powerful, ready-made medium, 
but it could speak only if I told it to.   Then one day, early 
in January, 1960, I sat down at my desk, and suddenly I was aware 
of the crucifix. It was a simple ivory crucifix which my mother had 
given me. I had mounted it on velvet and hung it over my desk to remind 
me always to use the power of the paper in a Christian manner. 
Now it seemed almost as if Jesus were looking down at me with sadness 
in His eyes, saying:   "You will lose the paper. You may 
lose your life. But do you have any choice"?   I knew in that 
moment that I did <not> have any choice. From that day on I began 
to write editorials about the things I did not think correct in 
Fidel Castro's regime. 
@   Too often a beginning bodybuilder has to do his training secretly 
either because his parents don't want sonny-boy to "lift all 
those old barbell things" because "you'll stunt your growth" 
**h or because childish taunts from his schoolmates, like "Hey **h 
lookit Mr& America **h whaddya gonna do with all those muscles (of 
which he has none at the time)"?   After all, a guy's gotta 
have a little ego!   Therefore it's a genuine pleasure 
to tell you about an entirely happy bodybuilder who has <never> had 
to train in secret **h has <never> heard one unkind word from his parents 
**h and <never> has been taunted by his schoolmates! 
This happy, always smiling lad with the sunny disposition is our new 
<Junior Mr& Canada>- Henri de Courcy.   Far from discouraging 
Henri, his parents urge him on to greater and greater accomplishments. 
Instead of admonishing him to let the weights alone they 
personally took him to that master Montreal bodybuilding authority, 
Professor Roland Claude.   And they couldn't have entrusted 
Henri to better hands because "le professeur" knows his muscles 
from the <sterno-cleido mastoideus> of the neck right down to the <tibialis 
anticus> of the leg **h and better still, he knows just what 
exercises work best for them and what Weider principles to combine 
them with for fast, <fast> muscle growth.   That's because the 
good professor teaches only Weider methods at his famous Montreal 
Health Studio which is located at 1821 Mt& Royal East in Montreal. 
Undoubtedly you have read the case histories of some of his prize-winning 
pupils (every pupil has a physique title of some kind or other). 
There's Gaetan d'Amours who is our newest <Mr& Canada> 
**h Jean-Paul Senesac, whose story appeared here two issues ago 
**h Jack Boissoneault, who was with us last month **h Charles Harve, 
who recently won the "Most Muscular Man" subdivision award 
in the {Mr& Canada} event **h and a host of others. Yesiree **h 
the professor knows his muscles!   Now when Henri was just 
12 he was only 4' 10'' tall and weighed an astounding 72 pounds, 
and his greatest desire was to pack on some weight. About that time 
he began reading {Mr& America} and {Muscle Builder} 
and he learned of the famous Weider way to fast weight gaining. Seeing 
so many illustrations and reading so many testimonials to the value 
of {Quick-Wate} and {Super-Protein}, those two wonder-working 
Weider food supplements, he decided to try them and see what they 
could do for him.   Well, sir **h they did real great! For 
in almost less time than it takes to tell it, Henri's bodyweight was 
increasing rapidly. Of course he did some exercising **h he's crazy 
about water skiing and swimming and this vigorous exercise in conjunction 
with the added food supplements packed pounds of solid muscle 
on his skinny frame.   Henri has always had shapely legs from swimming 
and water skiing and really doesn't have to work them very much. 
But he was totally dissatisfied with his upper body. It was muscular 
but it wasn't symmetrical. "A real 'nothing' torso", says 
Henri. "It never seemed to widen **h it just got longer and longer".

That's when he went to Professor Claude. And at 
once Claude saw what the trouble was and he knew just how to correct 
it. In his gym the professor has some of the most "knocked out" equipment 
since Vic Tanny. Mr& Claude is a specialist in torso development 
and he has long favored the now-famous Weider {Push-Pull 
Super-Set} technique in which one exercise of the Super-Set is 
a {pressing} or "pushing" movement which accents one sector of 
a muscle group in a specific way, followed by a "pulling" exercise 
which works the opposing sector of the same muscle group.   So 
right away Claude introduced Henri to his famous "moon" bench 
and proceeded to teach him his first Push-Pull Super-Set consisting 
of the wide-grip Straight-Arm Pullover (the "pull" part of the 
Push-Pull Super-Set) which dramatically widens the ribcage and 
strongly affects the muscles of the upper back and chest **h and the 
collar-to-collar Bench Press which specifically works on the chest to 
build those wide, Reeves-type "gladiator" ~pecs, while stimulating 
the upper ~lats and frontal deltoids.   As you can see, 
in this Push-Pull Super Set the entire chest-back-shoulder area is 
vigorously exercised in alternate sectors by alternate exercises **h so 
the complete torso remains pumped-up all the time!   Now when 
Henri has completed four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No& 1, 
the professor allows him about a five-minute rest period before starting 
him on four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No& 2.   Super-Set 
No& 2 is made up of similar exercises, but this time done 
with dumbbells, and using both "moon" and flat benches. The "push" 
exercise of this Push-Pull Super-Set is the Bench Press done 
with elbows well pulled back and with a greater downward stretch of 
the pectorals not possible with the barbell variation. You need the 
barbell variation to build width and mass in the ~pecs **h the dumbbell 
variation develops a most classically sculptured outline to the ~pecs.

The "pull" exercise in this Super-Set is the one-dumbbell 
Bent-Arm Pullover. 
(Note how strongly 
the upper ~lats and serratus are worked in this fine exercise 
because of the pin-point concentration of force which the dumbbell variation 
affords).   In the third Push-Pull Super-Set the "push" 
exercise is the widegrip Pushup Between Bars, while the "pull" 
exercise is the Moon Bench Lateral Raise with bent arms.

The Pushup done in this manner is the greatest pectoral-ribcage 
stretcher ever invented! This is true {only} if a very wide grip 
is used and {only} when the {greatest possible stretch} is 
achieved. You'll know when you've made the greatest stretch because 
your shoulder blades will touch! As you see, the professor has designed 
a piece of apparatus that {forces} the bodybuilder to use 
a w-i-d-e grip **h he has to; he just can't do anything about it at 
all!   But as you can also see, it's not a painful exercise 
at all, because Henri de Courcy- the "happy" bodybuilder- 
looks as though he were having the time of his life!   The last 
exercise of Roland Claude's prescribed program for Henri is a single 
exercise, done in individual sets with a bit longer pause between 
sets. By this time Henri's entire chest-back-~lat-shoulder area 
is pumped-up to almost bursting point, and Claude takes time to 
do a bit more pectoral-front deltoid shaping work. He has Henri do 
from four to six sets of the Incline Bench Press (note the high incline). 
This gives a wide flare to the ~pecs, causing them to flow 
dramatically upward into deltoids and dramatically downward into the 
serratus and ~lats.   This is the kind of chest that invariably 
wins contests **h that steel-edged "carved-out-of-solid rock" looks 
of the great champions.   So with four complete Push-Pull 
Super-Sets No& 1, four of No& 2, four of No& 3 and four to 
six sets of the Incline Bench Press, you can see that Henri de Courcy 
has had a terrific mass-building, muscle-shaping, torso-defining 
workout that cannot be improved upon. 
@   Physique contests are rarely won on muscle size alone **h 
rarer still is a <Mr& America> or <Mr& Universe> of true Herculean 
build. The aspects of physical development that catch the judges' 
eyes and which rightfully influence their decisions are symmetry 
and that hallmark of the true champion- <superior definition> 
of the muscles.

Now <good> definition is one thing that all of us can 
acquire with occasional high-set, high-rep, light-weight workouts. 
But <contest> definition- that dramatic muscular separation of every 
muscle group that seems as though it must have been carved by a sculptor's 
chisel- is something quite different. This comes not alone 
from high-set, high-rep training, but from certain definition-specialization 
exercises which the champion selects for himself with the knowledge 
of exactly what works best for <him>.   Often these exercises 
work well for some bodybuilders but less spectacularly for others. 
Because they are "minority" exercises and have but a limited 
appeal they soon find themselves in the limbo of the forgotten. Only 
when the newest <Mr& America> or <Mr& Universe> rediscovers 
them and puts them into practice are we reacquainted with them and 
once again see how effective they really are.   The exercise I 
shall discuss in this- the first of a new series of articles on muscle 
definition-specialization of a particular body part- is the One 
Leg Lunge. Why it was ever forgotten for even a moment I cannot say 
because it works perfectly for <everyone>, no matter whether he has 
short or long thigh-bone lengths!   It is the one exercise 
that drastically influences the definition of the thighs at the {hipline}- 
that mark of the champion that sets him apart from all other 
bodybuilders **h a criterion of muscle "drama" that is unforgettable 
to judges and audiences alike **h the facet of muscular development 
that wins prizes.   Definition of the thighs at the uppermost 
part is quite commonly seen in most championship Olympic lifters which 
is easily understandable. The One Leg Lunge is a {split} and 
all lifters practice this in their regular workouts.   But for 
purely definition purposes- used in conjunction with your regular 
Squatting, Leg Curling, Leg Extensor programs- a heavy weight is 
not needed. Indeed, a lighter weight works much better because a greater, 
more extensive split can be performed. Used in several sets of 
high reps once or twice each week it will not be long before your entire 
upper leg takes on a razor-sharp definition in which the muscles look 
like wire cables writhing and twisting under the skin!   Really 
there is no reason why this fine exercise should not find its way 
into your leg program at all times, for the following suggestions show 
why it is so effective: _1._ It's a {complete} thigh contraction-extension 
exercise. _2._ It places terrific tension on 
the leg muscles from start to finish of each repetition. _3._ It 
improves over-all balance and control for the bodybuilder, and helps 
to make Squats more easily and more correctly performed. _4._ It 
increases flexibility of the legs. _5._ It speeds muscle growth 
and power development even for the {advanced} bodybuilder because 
each hip and leg is exercised separately, thus enabling a massive, concentrated 
effort to be focused on each.   You'll need your Weider 
Power Stands for this fine exercise and here's the way it's 
done: _1._ Place your Power Stands in position and adjust their 
height so that this will correspond to the height of your shoulders 
when you are in a deep leg split as for a heavy Clean. _2._ Place 
a suitably-loaded barbell across them; grasp the bar (which will 
rest against the back of your neck); extend your feet forward and 
backward until you are in a deep leg split.   Now raise the weight 
by {straightening} your {front} leg, {without moving your 
feet}. When the front knee is straight and {locked}, allow it 
to bend again until you feel the bar come lightly into contact with the 
sides of the Power Stands. _3._ After you have taken a breather, 
{reverse} the position of your legs so that the {front} thigh 
of the {previous} exercise is now to the {rear}, and the 
{rear} thigh now to the {front}, and perform the same movement 
in the same manner.   That's the One-Leg Lunge in a nutshell. 
You should have a couple of training partners to stand by when you 
make your first 
experiments **h just for safety. You should also begin 
this exercise with a very light barbell until you become accustomed 
to it balance-wise.   Oh, you'll wobble and weave quite a bit 
at first. But don't worry. Before your first training experiment 
has ended there will be a big improvement and almost before you know it 
you'll be raising and lowering yourself just like a veteran!

Although I suggested that you hold the bar at the {back} of 
the neck there's no reason why you shouldn't make some experiments 
with the bar held in {front} of the neck. Squat-style lifters and 
leg-split lifters would both benefit enormously by practicing those 
variations providing that they remember to make alternate sets with the 
{left} and {right} leg to the {front}.

THE MOST BEAUTIFUL bed of pansies I've seen was in a South 
Dakota yard on a sizzling day. Pansies are supposed to like it 
cool, but those great velvety flowers were healthy and perky in the glaring 
sun. I sought out the gardener and asked him what he did to produce 
such beauties in that weather. He seemed puzzled by my question. 
"I just love them", he said.   The more I talked with him, 
the more convinced I became that that was the secret of their riotous 
blooming. Of course his love was expressed in intelligent care. 
He planted the pansy seeds himself, buying them from a pansy specialist. 
These specialists, I learned, have done a great deal of work to 
improve the size and health of the plants and the resulting flowers. Their 
seeds produce vigorous blooming plants half again the size of the 
unimproved strains.   I asked him if he took seeds from his own 
plants. Occasionally, when he had an unusual flower that he wanted 
more of he did; but pansy seeds, he told me, soon "run down". It's 
best to buy them fresh from a dealer who is working to improve them.

His soil was "nothing special", just prairie land, but 
he had harrowed in compost until it was loose, spongy and brown-black. 
I fingered it and had the feeling of adequacy that comes with the 
right texture, tilth and body. It isn't easy to describe it, but every 
gardener knows it when his fingers touch such soil.   Nothing 
is easier to grow from seed than pansies. They germinate quickly, the 
tiny plants appearing in a week, and grow along lustily. It doesn't 
really matter which month of the year you sow them, but they germinate 
best when they have a wide variation of temperature, very warm followed 
by cool in the same 24 hours.   I like to make a seedbed 
right in the open, though many people start them successfully in cold 
frames. Pansies don't have to be coddled; they'd rather have things 
rugged, with only moderate protection on the coldest days. If you 
do use a cold frame be sure that its ventilation is adequate.

For my seedbed I use good garden soil with a little sand added to 
encourage rooting. I dig it, rake it smooth, sow the seeds and wet them 
down with a fog spray. Then I cover the sowing with a board. This 
keeps it cool and moist and protects it from birds. Ants carry away 
the seeds so better be sure that there are no ant hills nearby.

When the first sprinkling of green appears I remove the board. A 
light, porous mulch applied now keeps the roots cool and the soil soft 
during these early days of growth. I like sawdust for this, or hay.

When they have 4 to 6 leaves and are thrifty little plants, it's 
time to set them out where they are to remain. Every time you transplant 
a pansy you cause its flowers to become smaller. The moral is: 
don't transplant it any oftener than you must. As soon as they 
are large enough to move, I put mine 9 inches apart where they are 
to bloom. I put a little scoop of pulverized phosphate rock or steamed 
bone meal into each hole with the plant. That encourages rooting, and 
the better developed the roots, the larger and more plentiful the flowers.

Pansies are gluttons. I doubt if it is possible to overfeed 
them. I spade lots of compost into their bed; lacking that, 
decayed manure spread over the bed is fine. One year I simply set the 
plants in the remains of a compost pile, to which a little sand had 
been added, and I had the most beautiful pansies in my, or any of my 
neighbors' experience. In addition to the rich soil they benefit by 
feedings of manure water every other week, diluted to the color of weak 
tea. As a substitute for this, organic fertilizer dissolved in water 
to half the strength in the directions, may be used.   They 
need mulch. We put a light mulch over the seedlings; now we must use 
a heavy one. Three inches of porous material will do a good job of 
keeping weeds down and the soil moist and cool.   When winter comes 
be ready with additional mulch. I like hay for this and apply it 
so that only the tops of the plants show right after a good frost. That 
keeps in the cold, retains moisture and prevents the heaving of alternate 
freezing and thawing.   Don't miss the pansies that appear 
from time to time through the winter. Whenever there is a thaw or 
a few sunny days, you'll be likely to find a brave little blossom or 
two. If those aren't enough for you, why not grow some just for winter 
blooming? The pansies I cherished most bloomed for me in February 
during a particularly cold winter. I started the seed in a flat 
in June and set out the little pansies in a cold frame. (An unheated 
greenhouse would have been better, if I had had one.) The plants 
took zero nights in their stride, with nothing but a mat of straw over 
the glass to protect them. In response to the lengthening days of February 
they budded, then bloomed their 4-inch velvety flowers. That 
cold frame was my morale builder; its mass of bright bloom set in a 
border of snow made my spirits rise every time I looked at it. Like 
strawberries in December, pansies are far more exciting in February 
than in May. Try that late winter pickup when you are so tired of cold 
and snow that you feel you just can't take another day of it.

The day will come, in midsummer, when you find your plants becoming 
"leggy", running to tall-growing foliage at the expense of blossoms. 
Try pegging down each separate branch to the earth, using a bobby 
pin to hold it there. Pick the flowers, keep the soil dampened, and 
each of the pegged-down branches will take root and become a little 
plant and go on blooming for the rest of the season. As soon as an experimental 
tug assures you that roots have taken over, cut it off from 
the mother plant.   A second and also good practice is to shear 
off the tops, leaving an inch high stub with just a leaf or two on each 
branch. These cut-down plants will bud and blossom in record time 
and will behave just as they did in early spring. I like to shear half 
my plants at a time, leaving one half of them to blossom while the 
second half is getting started on its new round of blooming.   Probably 
no one needs to tell you that the way to stop all bloom is to 
let the blossoms go to seed. Nature's aim, different from ours, is 
to provide for the coming generation. That done, her work is accomplished 
and she ignores the plant.   Here is a word of advice when 
you go shopping for your pansy seeds. Go to a reputable grower, preferably 
a pansy specialist. It is no harder to raise big, healthy, blooming 
plants than weak, sickly little things; in fact it is easier. But 
you will never get better flowers than the seed you grow.   Many 
people think that pansies last only a few weeks, then their period 
of growth and bloom is over. That is not true. If the plants are cared 
for and protected over the winter, the second year is more prolific 
than the first.   Would you like to grow exhibition pansies? 
Remove about half the branches from each plant, leaving only the strongest 
with the largest buds. The flowers will be huge.   Pansies 
have character. They stick to their principles, insist upon their 
due, but grow and bloom with dependable regularity if given it. Treat 
them right and they'll make a showing every month in the year except 
the frigid ones. Give them food, some shade, mulch, water and more 
food, and they'll repay your solicitude with beauty.

A SALAD WITH 
greens and tomato is a popular and wonderfully healthful addition 
to a meal, but add an avocado and you have something really special. 
This delightful tropical fruit has become well-known in the past 
thirty years because modern transportation methods have made it possible 
to ship avocado anywhere in the United States. It has a great 
many assets to recommend it and if you haven't made avocado a part 
of your diet yet, you really should.   You will find that avocado 
is unlike any other fruit you have ever tasted. It is roughly shaped 
like a large pear, and when properly ripened, its dark green skin covers 
a meaty, melon-like pulp that has about the consistency of a ripe 
Bartlett pear, but oily. The avocado should have a "give" to it, 
as you hold it, when it is ripe. The flavor is neither sweet, like 
a pear, nor tart like an orange; it is subtle and rather bland, nut-like. 
It is a flavor that might take a little getting used to- not 
because it is unpleasant, but because the flavor is hard to define in 
the light of our experience with other fruits. Sometimes it takes several 
"eatings" of avocado to catch that delightful quality in taste 
that has made it such a favorite throughout the world. Once you become 
an avocado fan, you will look forward to the season each year with 
eager anticipation. 

#NATURALLY DORMANT AND NO SPRAY DANGER#

Today, 
refrigerated carriers have made the shipping of avocados possible 
to any place in the world. The fruit is allowed to mature on the tree, 
but it is still firm at this point. It is brought to packing houses, 
cleaned and graded as to size and quality, and packed in protective 
excelsior. The fruit is then cooled to 42`F&, a temperature at which 
it lapses into a sort of dormant state. This cooling does not change 
the avocado in any way, it just delays the natural softening of 
the fruit until a grovelike temperature (room temperature) is restored. 
This happens on the grocer's shelf or in your kitchen.   One 
of the most attractive things about avocados is that they do not require 
processing of any kind. There is no dyeing or waxing or gassing 
needed. If the temperature is controlled properly, the avocado will delay 
its ripening until needed. And unlike other fruits, one cannot eat 
the skin of the avocado. It is thick, much like an egg plant's skin, 
so that poison sprays, if they are used, present no hazard to the 
consumer. 

#NUTRITIOUS AND A CHOLESTEROL REDUCER#

Good taste and 
versatility, 
plus safety from spray poisons would be enough to recommend 
the frequent use of such a fruit, even if its nutritional values were 
limited. Avocados, however, are very rich in nutrients. Their main 
asset is an abundance of unsaturated fatty acids, so necessary for maintaining 
the good health of the circulatory system. Aside from this, 
the average portion contains some protein, an appreciable amount of vitamins 
~A and ~C- about one-tenth of the minimum daily requirement, 
and about a third of the official vitamin ~E requirement. The 
~B vitamins are well represented, especially thiamin and riboflavin. 
Calcium, phosphorus and iron are present in worthwhile amounts, 
and eleven other minerals also have been found in varying trace amounts. 
None of these values is destroyed, not significantly altered by refrigeration 
storage.   Dr& Wilson C& Grant, of the Veterans' 
Administration Hospital, Coral Gables, Florida, and the University 
of Miami School of Medicine, set out to discover if avocados, 
because of their high content of unsaturated fatty acids, would reduce 
the cholesterol of the blood in selected patients. The study comprised 
16 male patients, ranging in age from 27 to 72. They were put 
on control diets to determine as accurately as possible, the normal cholesterol 
level of their blood. Then they were given 1/2 to 1-1/2 avocados 
per day as a substitute for part of their dietary fat consumption.

FIVE, FOUR, THREE, TWO, ONE, FIRE! The tremendous energy 
released by giant rocket engines perhaps can be felt much better than 
it can be heard. The pulsating vibration of energy clutches at the 
pit of your stomach.   Never before has the introduction of a weapon 
caused so much apprehension and fear. Nuclear weapons are fearsome, 
but the long-range ballistic missile gives them a stealth and merciless 
swiftness which is much more terrifying.   A great many writers 
are bewitched by the apparently overwhelming advantage an attacker 
would have if he were to strike with complete surprise using nuclear 
rockets. It is relatively easy to go a step further and reason that 
an attacker, in possession of such absolute power, would simultaneously 
destroy his opponent's cities and people. With a nation defenseless 
before it, why would the attacker spare the victim's people? 
Wouldn't the wanton destruction of cities and people be the logical 
act of complete subjugation? The nation would be utterly devastated. 
The will of its people, so crucial in time of peril, would be broken.

Nuclear weapons have given the world the means for self-destruction 
in hours or days; and now rockets have given it the means 
to destroy itself in minutes. At this point it should be painfully obvious 
that cities, being "soft", and the people within them are ideally 
suited to destruction by nuclear weapons.   However, because 
this vulnerability is mutual, it is to the advantage of neither side 
to destroy the opponent's cities, at least so long as the opponent 
has nuclear weapons with which to effect reprisal. It should be appallingly 
apparent that city-trading is not a profitable military tactic.

~ICBMs have given us a capability which could be used in 
two different ways. They could be used to attack a nation's people 
(which would inevitably mean the loss of the attacker's own people), 
or they could be used with discrimination to destroy the enemy's military 
force.   If our national interest lies in being able to 
fight and win a war rather than committing national suicide, then we must 
take a much more penetrating look at ballistic missiles. We must 
determine whether missiles can win a war all by themselves. We must make 
certain that the aircraft is finished before we give the entire job 
to the missile.   Missiles are very valuable weapons, but they 
also have their too little known limitations.   Because of a missile's 
ballistic trajectory, the location of a fixed target must be 
known quite accurately. Placing missiles in submarines, on barges, railroads, 
highways, surface vessels and in the air provides them with 
passive protection by taking advantage of the gravest weakness of long-range 
ballistic missiles today- the extreme difficulty of destroying 
a mobile or moving target with such weapons. One must first <detect> 
a fleeting mobile or moving target, <decide> that it is worthy of 
destruction, <select> the missile to be fired against the target, 
<compute> ballistics for the flight, and <prepare> the missile for 
firing.   Even if all these operations could be performed <instantaneously>, 
the ~ICBM still has a time of flight to the target 
of about 30 minutes. Therefore, if the target can significantly change 
its location in something less than 30 minutes, the probability of 
having destroyed it is drastically lowered.   Because of this, 
it would appear inevitable that an increasing percentage of strategic 
missiles will seek self-protection in mobility- at least until missile 
defenses are perfected which have an exceedingly high kill probability.

In order to destroy the enemy's mobile, moving, or imprecisely 
located strategic forces, we must have a hunter-killer capability 
<in addition> to our missiles. Until this hunter-killer operation 
can be performed by spacecraft, manned aircraft appear to be the only 
means available to us.   It seems reasonable that if general 
nuclear war is not to be one cataclysmic act of burning each other's 
citizens to cinders, we must have a manned strategic force of long-endurance 
aircraft capable of going into China or Russia to find and 
destroy their strategic forces which continued to threaten us. 
Let us suppose the Russians decide to build a rail-mobile ~ICBM 
force. It is entirely feasible to employ aircraft such as the ~B-52 
or ~B-70 in hunter-killer operations against Soviet railway-based 
missiles. If we stop thinking in terms of tremendous multimegaton 
nuclear weapons and consider employing much smaller nuclear weapons which 
may be more appropriate for most important military targets, it would 
seem that the ~B-52 or ~B-70 could carry a great many small 
nuclear weapons.   An aircraft with a load of small nuclear weapons 
could very conceivably be given a mission to suppress all trains 
operating within a specified geographic area of Russia- provided that 
we had used some of our ~ICBMs to degrade Russia's air defenses 
before our bombers got there. The aircraft could be used to destroy 
other mobile, fleeting, and imprecisely located targets as well as 
the known, fixed and hardened targets which can also be destroyed by 
missile.   Why, then, aren't we planning a larger, more important 
role for manned military aircraft? Is there any other way to do 
the job?   Survivability of our strategic forces (Polaris, 
mobile and hardened Minuteman, hardened Atlas and Titan, and airborne 
Skybolt) means that it will take some time, perhaps weeks, to destroy 
a strategic force. War, under these circumstances, cannot be one 
massive exchange of nuclear devastation. Forces <will survive> a surprise 
attack, and these forces will give depth, or considerable duration, 
to the conflict. ##

THE forces which survive the initial 
attack 
must be found and destroyed. Even mobile forces must be found and 
destroyed. But, how does one go about the job of finding and destroying 
mobile forces? They are not susceptible to wholesale destruction 
by ballistic missile.   Some day, many years in the future, true 
spacecraft will be able to find and destroy mobile targets. But until 
we have an effective spacecraft, the answer to the hunter-killer 
problem is manned aircraft.   However, the aircraft which we have 
today are tied to large, "soft" airfields. Nuclear rockets can 
destroy airfields with ease. Here then is our problem: aircraft are 
vital to winning a war today because they can perform those missions 
which a missile is totally incapable of performing; but the airfield, 
on which the aircraft is completely dependent, is doomed by the missile. 
This makes today's aircraft a one-shot, or one mission, weapon. 
Aircraft are mighty expensive if you can use them only once.

This is the point on which so many people have written off the aircraft 
in favor of the missile. But remember this- it isn't the <aircraft> 
which is vulnerable to nuclear rockets, it is the <airfield>. 
Eliminate the <vulnerability of aircraft on the ground> and you 
have essentially eliminated its vulnerability to long-range ballistic 
missiles.   There are <four rather obvious ways> to reduce or 
eliminate the vulnerability of aircraft on the ground:   @ Put 
aircraft in "bomb-proof" hangars when they are on the ground.

@ Build long-range aircraft which can take off from small (3,000-foot) 
airfields with runways. If we could use all the small airfields 
we have in this country, we could disperse our strategic aircraft 
by a factor of 10 or more.   @ Use nuclear propulsions to keep 
our long-range military aircraft in the air for the majority of their 
useful life.   @ Using very high thrust-to-weight ratio engines, 
develop a vertical-takeoff-and-landing (~VTOL) long-range 
military aircraft.   We have the technology today with which to 
build aircraft shelters which could withstand at least 200 ~psi. We 
could put a portion of our strategic bombers in such shelters. 
Large, 
long-range bombers can be developed which would have the capability 
to take off from 3,000-foot runways, but they would require more powerful 
engines than we have today. There is little enthusiasm for spending 
money to develop more powerful engines because of the erroneous belief 
that the aircraft has been made obsolete by the missile.   This 
same preoccupation with missiles at the expense of aircraft has resulted 
in our half-hearted effort to develop nuclear propulsion for aircraft. 
One seldom hears the analogy "nuclear propulsion will do for 
the aircraft what it has already done for the submarine".   If, 
for some reason such as economy, we are not going to develop aircraft 
nuclear propulsion with a sense of national urgency, then we should 
turn our effort to developing jet engines with a thrust-to-weight ratio 
of 12 or 15 to one. With powerplants such as these, vertical takeoff 
and landing combat aircraft could be built. For example, a 12-to-one 
engine would power a <supersonic> ~VTOL fighter. With a 15-to-one 
engine, a supersonic aircraft weighing 300,000 pounds could rise 
vertically. The reason that we are not going ahead full speed to 
develop high thrust-to-weight engines is that it would cost perhaps a 
billion dollars- and you don't spend that sort of money if aircraft 
are obsolete.   When aircraft are no longer helpless on airfields, 
they are no longer vulnerable to ~ICBMs. If our ~SAC 
bombers were, today, capable of surviving a surprise missile attack and 
<because of infinite dispersion or long endurance had the capability 
to strike at Russia again, and again, and again>, those bombers would 
unquestionably assure our military dominance.   We would have 
the means to seek out and destroy the enemy's force- whether it 
were fixed or mobile. With such a force of manned bombers we could bring 
enormous pressure to bear on an enemy, and this pressure would be 
selective and extremely discriminating. No need to kill an entire city 
and all its people because we lacked the precision and reconnaissance 
to selectively disarm the enemy's military force.   Our first 
necessity, at the very outset of war, is post-attack reconnaissance. 
In a few years we will have ~SAMOS (semiautomatic missile observation 
system). But in the case of moving targets, and targets which 
have limited mobility, what will their location be when it is time to 
destroy them? What targets have we successfully knocked out? A 
ballistic missile cannot, today, tell you if it was successful or unsuccessful. 
What targets still remain to be hit? These crucial questions 
must be answered by post-attack reconnaissance. ~SAMOS will 
be hard put to see through clouds- and to see in the dark. 
Even if this is some day possible, there remains the 30-minute time 
of flight of a missile to its overseas target. If the target can change 
its position significantly during the 30 minutes the missile is in 
the air on its way, the probability of the missile destroying the target 
is drastically reduced.   <Pre>-attack reconnaissance is vital 
but only <post>-attack reconnaissance will allow us to terminate 
the war favorably. It would be priceless to have an aircraft to gather 
that post-attack reconnaissance. It could operate under the clouds 
and perform infrared photography through clouds and at night. 
It would be even more valuable because that same aircraft could immediately 
destroy any targets it discovered- no need to wait for a missile 
to come all the way from the United States with the chance that 
the target, if it were mobile, would be gone.   A large aircraft, 
such as the ~B-52 or ~B-70, could carry perhaps 50 or 100 small 
nuclear weapons. Few people realize that one kiloton of nuclear explosive 
power will create 1,000 ~psi overpressure at 100 feet. Or 
put 
another way, the hardest missile site planned today could be destroyed 
by placing a one-kiloton warhead (1/20th the size of those used in Hiroshima 
and Nagasaki) within 100 to 200 feet of the target!

It is our lack of extreme accuracy which forces the use of very large 
yield nuclear weapons.   Today we have side-looking radar which 
has such high resolution that the radar picture clearly shows individual 
buildings, runways, taxi-ways, separate spans of bridges, etc&. 
With these keen "eyes" and small nuclear weapons delivered with accuracy, 
military forces can be directly attacked <with minimum damage 
to urban areas>.   If we fail to develop the means to hunt down 
and destroy the enemy's military force with extreme care and precision, 
and if war comes in spite of our most ardent desires for peace, 
our choice of alternatives will be truly frightening.

THE LYRIC BEAUTIES of Schubert's <Trout> Quintet- 
its elemental rhythms and infectious melodies- make it a source 
of pure pleasure for almost all music listeners. But for students of 
musical forms and would-be classifiers, the work presents its problems. 
Since it requires only five players, it would seem to fall into the 
category of chamber music- yet it calls for a double bass, an instrument 
generally regarded as symphonic. Moreover, the piece is written 
in five movements, rather than the conventional four of most quintets, 
and this gives the opus a serenade or divertimento flavor.   The 
many and frequent performances of the <Trout> serve to emphasize 
the dual nature of its writing. Some renditions are of symphonic dimensions, 
with the contrabass given free rein. Other interpretations present 
the music as an essentially intimate creation. In these readings, 
the double bass is either kept discreetly in the background, or it 
is dressed in clown's attire- the musical equivalent of a bull in 
a china shop. Recently I was struck anew by the divergent approaches, 
when in the course of one afternoon and evening I listened to no fewer 
than ten different performances. The occasion for this marathon: 
Angel's long-awaited reissue in its "Great Recordings of the 
Century" series of the Schnabel-Pro Arte version. Let me say at 
the outset that the music sounded as sparkling on the last playing as 
it did on the first.   Whether considered alone or in relation 
to other editions, ~COLH 40 is a document of prime importance. 
Artur Schnabel was one of the greatest Schubert-Beethoven-Mozart 
players of all time, and any commentary of his on this repertory is valuable. 
But Schnabel was a great teacher in addition to being a great 
performer, and the fact that four of the ten versions I listened to 
are by Schnabel pupils (Clifford Curzon, Frank Glazer, Adrian Aeschbacher, 
and Victor Babin) also sheds light on the master's pedagogical 
skills. Certain pianistic traits are common to all five Schnabelian 
renditions, most notably the "Schnabel trill" (which differs 
from the conventional trill in that the two notes are struck simultaneously). 
But the most impressive testimony to Schnabel's distinction 
as a teacher is reflected by the individuality which marks each 
student's approach as distinctly his own.   Schnabel's emphasis 
on structural clarity, his innate rhythmic vibrancy, and impetuous 
intensity all tend to stamp his reading as a symphonic one. Yet no 
detail was too small to receive attention from this master, and as a 
result the playing here has humor, delicacy, and radiant humanity. This 
is a serious-minded interpretation, but it is never strait-laced. And 
although Schnabel's pianism bristles with excitement, it is meticulously 
faithful to Schubert's dynamic markings and phrase indications. 
The piano performance on this <Trout> is one that really demands 
a search for superlatives.   About the Pro Arte's contribution 
I am less happy. I, for one, rather regret that Schnabel didn't 
collaborate with the Budapest Quartet, whose rugged, athletic 
playing was a good deal closer to this pianist's interpretative outlook 
than the style of the Belgian group. From a technical standpoint, 
the string playing is good, but the Pro Arte people fail to enter 
into the spirit of things here. The violinist, in particular, is very 
indulgent with swoops and slides, and his tone is pinched and edgy. 
The twenty-five-year-old recording offers rather faded string tone, 
but the balance between the instruments is good and the transfer is very 
quiet. There is a break in continuity just before the fourth variation 
in the "<Forellen>" movement, and I suspect that this is 
due to imperfect splicing between sides of the original ~SPs.

Turning to the more modern versions, Curzon's (London) offers 
the most sophisticated keyboard work. Every detail in his interpretation 
has been beautifully thought out, and of these I would especially 
cite the delicious <la^ndler> touch the pianist brings to the fifth 
variation (an obvious indication that he is playing with Viennese 
musicians), and the gossamer shading throughout. Some of Curzon's 
playing strikes me as finicky, however. Why, for example, does he favor 
<two> tempos, rather than one, for the third movement? The assisting 
musicians from the Vienna Octet are somewhat lacking in <expertise>, 
but their contribution is rustic and appealing. (Special compliments 
to the double bass playing of Johann Krumpp: his scrawny, 
tottering sound adds a delightful hilarity to the performance.)

The Glazer-Fine Arts edition (Concert-Disc) is a model of lucidity 
and organization. It is, moreover, a perfectly integrated ensemble 
effort. But having lived with the disc for some time now, I find 
the performance less exciting than either Schnabel's or Fleisher's 
(whose superb performance with the Budapest Quartet has still to 
be recorded) and a good deal less filled with humor than Curzon's. 
Aeschbacher's work is very much akin to Schnabel's, but the sound 
on his Decca disc is dated, and you will have a hard time locating 
a copy of it.   The Hephzibah Menuhin-Amadeus Quartet (Angel) 
and Victor Babin-Festival Quartet (~RCA Victor) editions 
give us superlative string playing (both in symphonic style) crippled 
by unimaginative piano playing. (Babin has acquired some of Schnabel's 
keyboard manner, but his playing is of limited insight.) Badura-Skoda-Vienna 
Konzerthaus (Westminster) and Demus-Schubert Quartet 
(Deutsche Grammophon) are both warm-toned, pleasantly lyrical, 
but rather slack and tensionless. Helmut Roloff, playing with a group 
of musicians from the Bayreuth Ensemble, gives a sturdy reading, in 
much the same vein as that of the last-mentioned pianists. Telefunken 
has accorded him beautiful sound, and this bargain-priced disc (it 
sells for $2.98) is worthy of consideration.   Returning once again 
to the Schnabel reissue, I am beguiled anew by the magnificence 
of this pianist's musical penetration. Here is truly a "Great Recording 
of the Century", and its greatness is by no means diminished 
by the fact that it is not quite perfect. This recording surely belongs 
in everyone's collection. 
MUST records always sound like records?   From the beginning 
of commercial recording, new discs purported to be indistinguishable 
from The Real Thing have regularly been put in circulation. Seen 
in perspective, many of these releases have a genuine claim to be milestones. 
Although lacking absolute verisimilitude, they supply the 
ear and the imagination with all necessary materials for re-creation 
of the original. On the basis of what they give us we can know how the 
young Caruso sang, appreciate the distinctive qualities of <Parsifal> 
under Karl Muck's baton, or sense the type of ensemble Toscanini 
created in his years with the New York Philharmonic.   Since 
the concept of high fidelity became important some dozen years ago, 
the claims of technical improvements have multiplied tenfold. In many 
cases the revolutionary production has offered no more than sensational 
effects: the first hearing was fascinating and the second disillusioning 
as the gap between sound and substance became clearer. Other 
innovations with better claims to musical interest survived rehearing 
to acquire in time the status of classics. If we return to them today, 
we have no difficulty spotting their weaknesses but we find them 
still pleasing.   Records sound like records because they provide 
a different sort of experience than live music. This difference is 
made up of many factors. Some of them are obvious, such as the fact 
that we associate recorded and live music with our reponses and behavior 
in different types of environments and social settings. (Music often 
sounds best to me when I can dress informally and sit in something 
more comfortable than a theatre seat.) From the technical standpoint, 
records differ from live music to the degree that they fail to convey 
the true color, texture, complexity, range, intensity, pulse, and pitch 
of the original. Any alteration of one of these factors is distortion, 
although we generally use that word only for effects so pronounced 
that they can be stated quantitatively on the basis of standard tests. 
Yet it is the accumulation of distortion, the fitting together of 
fractional bits until the total reaches the threshold of our awareness, 
that makes records sound like records. The sound may be good; 
but if you know The Real Thing, you know that what you are hearing 
is only a clever imitation.   Command's new Brahms Second is 
a major effort to make a record that sounds like a real orchestra rather 
than a copy of one. Like the recent <Scheherazade> from London 
(HIGH FIDELITY, Sept& 1961), it is successful because emphasis 
has been placed on good musical and engineering practices rather than 
on creating sensational effects. Because of this, only those with 
truly fine equipment will be able to appreciate the exact degree of the 
engineers' triumph.   The easiest way to describe this release 
is to say that it reproduces an interesting and effective Steinberg 
performance with minimal alteration of its musical values. The engineering 
as such never obtrudes upon your consciousness. The effect of 
the recording is very open and natural, with the frequency emphasis 
exactly what you would expect from a live performance. This absence of 
peaky highs and beefed-up bass not only produces greater fidelity, but 
it eliminates listener fatigue. A contributing factor is the perspective, 
the uniform aesthetic distance which is maintained. The orchestra 
is far enough away from you that you miss the bow scrapes, valve 
clicks, and other noises incidental to playing. Yet you feel the orchestra 
is near at hand, and the individual instruments have the same firm 
presence associated with listening from a good seat in an acoustically 
perfect hall. Command has achieved the ideal amount of reverberation. 
The music is always allowed the living space needed to attain its 
full sonority; yet the hall never intrudes as a quasi-performer. The 
timbre remains that of the instruments unclouded by resonance.

All of this would be wasted, of course, if the performance lacked 
authority and musical distinction. For me it has more of both elements 
than the majority of its competitors. Steinberg seems to have gone 
directly back to the score, discounting tradition, and has built his 
performance on the intention to reproduce as faithfully as possible exactly 
what Brahms set down on paper.   Those accustomed to broader, 
more romantic statements of the symphony can be expected to react 
strongly when they hear this one. Without losing the distinctive undertow 
of Brahmsian rhythm, the pacing is firm and the over-all performance 
has a tightly knit quality that makes for maximum cumulative effect. 
The <Presto ma non assai> of the first trio of the scherzo is 
taken literally and may shock you, as the real <Allegro con spirito> 
of the finale is likely to bring you to your feet. In the end, however, 
the thing about this performance that is most striking is the way 
it sings. Steinberg obviously has concluded that it is the lyric element 
which must dominate in this score, and he manages at times to create 
the effect of the whole orchestra bursting into song.   The 
engineering provides exactly the support needed for such a result. Too 
many records seem to reduce a work of symphonic complexity to a melody 
and its accompaniment. The Command technique invites you to listen 
to the depth of the orchestration. Your ear takes you into the ensemble, 
and you may well become aware of instrumental details which previously 
were apparent only in the score. It is this sort of experience 
that makes the concept of high fidelity of real musical significance 
for the home music listener. 
The first substantially complete stereo <Giselle> (and the only one 
of its scope since Feyer's four-sided ~LP edition of 1958 for 
Angel), this set is, I'm afraid, likely to provide more horrid fascination 
than enjoyment. The already faded pastel charms of the nai^ve 
music itself vanish entirely in Fistoulari's melodramatic contrasts 
between ultravehement brute power and chilly, if suave, sentimentality. 
And in its engineers' frantic attempts to achieve maximum dynamic 
impact and earsplitting brilliance, the recording sounds as though 
it had been "doctored for super-high fidelity". The home listener 
is overpowered, all right, but the experience is a far from pleasant 
one. As with the penultimate <Giselle> release (Wolff's abridgment 
for ~RCA Victor) I find the cleaner, less razor-edged 
monophonic 
version, for all its lack of big-stage spaciousness, the more 
aurally tolerable- but this may be the result of processing defects 
in my ~SD copies.

At the Westminster ~KC Dog Show in Madison Square Garden, 
New York on the second day, the Finals of the Junior Class 
brought out the most competitive competition in the history of this Class. 
The Class had entries from as far west as Wisconsin and as far 
south as Kentucky. This year several entries from Canada were entered 
which made the Junior Class International.   Forty-six of 
the 53 Juniors who mailed in entries were present. It was interesting 
to note that many of these Juniors were showing dogs in various other 
classes at the show prior to the Finals of the Junior Class.

As has been the custom for the past several years, John Cross, 
Jr&, Bench Show Chmn& of Westminster, arranged for the Juniors' 
meeting before the Class, and invited two speakers from the dog 
world to address them. Over 60 Juniors, parents and guests attended. 

#MRS& WILLIAM H& LONG, JR& SPEAKS#

After the Juniors 
were welcomed and congratulated for qualifying for the Finals of the 
Junior Class, Mrs& William H& Long, Jr& was introduced as 
the first speaker.   In her opening remarks Mrs& Long also 
welcomed the Juniors and stated, "There isn't any other show quite 
like Westminster. I know because this is my 37th year with hardly 
a break. Mrs& Long still feels the same unique spirit of Westminster 
which she stated the present Juniors will experience today but probably 
will not appreciate in full for a number of years.   Twenty 
years ago her daughter Betsey Long, then 13 years of age, won the 
Grand Challenge Trophy, Children's Handling Class (as they were 
called then) at Westminster. No sooner had Betsey come out of the 
ring than Mrs& Long walked into the Working Competition with 
Ch& Cadet or Noranda, another home-bred product, and won!

Speaking from long years of experience, Mrs& Long advised the Juniors: 
"<When showing dogs ceases to be fun and excitement>, 
STOP! Dogs have a way of sensing our feelings! When you and 
your dog step into the Junior ring, it should be just what the dog 
wants to do as much as what you want him to do. If you walk into the 
ring because it is fun to show your dog, he will feel it and give you 
a good performance! He knows your signals, what is expected of him 
and the way the Class is conducted, right up through the flash-bulbs 
of the photographers". 

#RIGHT ATTITUDE ESSENTIAL!#

"Take 
away your attitude", said Mrs& Long, "and what have you left? 
Either a nervous dog because you are livid with rage- a sure sign 
that you are taking things too seriously and had better stop! Or a 
bored dog because you are more interested in something else- maybe 
the way you look, or the date you have after the Class, or you are just 
doing this to please the parents.   "The reason you are in 
the ring today is to show your ability to present to any judge the most 
attractive picture of your dog that the skillful use of your aids can 
produce. Aids sounds more like a Pony Club, or horsemanship classes- 
riding a horse and showing a dog are very similar!   "Your 
aids are your attitude, which comes through your voice, your hands 
and legs- voice to encourage, discourage or whatever the need may 
be; hands to guide or restrain; legs to produce motion and rate of 
speed. Without right attitude the other aids just do not work right".

Mrs& Long wished all the Juniors luck in the Class and 
stated, "Have fun! And may you all continue to show at Westminster 
in the years to come"! 

#HARVEY BARCUS, SECOND SPEAKER#

The 
second speaker was Harvey Barcus, President of the Dog Writers 
Ass'n of America.   Mr& Barcus spoke on the subject of 
scholarships for Juniors- with which he is very familiar. Last year 
a boy he knows and helped in Journalism won the Thoroughbred Racing 
Ass'n Scholarship which is worth $10,000. He gave a resume of 
the steps taken in order for the boy he sponsored to win the scholarship.

"Junior Showmanship is an extremely worthy project and 
should be earnestly encouraged"! is one of Mr& Barcus' strong 
beliefs. He feels very forcibly that the American Kennel Club should 
take a MORE ACTIVE part in encouraging the Junior Division!

In closing, Mr& Barcus also wished all the Juniors 
luck in their Class. 

#WESTMINSTER SHOW NOTES#

Instead of 3 a&m& 
in the past, the Juniors Class at Westminster was held at 4:45 
p&m&. This gave the Juniors the use of the entire ring at the 
show- a great advantage to them!   Before the Juniors entered 
the ring the Steward announced that after all Juniors had moved 
their dogs around the ring and set them up, they could relax with their 
dogs. From there on, each Junior was going to be judged individually. 
This thoughtful gesture was well received by the Juniors as the 
Class had an entry of 46 Juniors and it took approximately one hour, 
45 minutes to judge the Class. 

#ANNE HONE ROGERS JUDGES 28TH FINALS# 

This year Anne Hone Rogers, outstanding Handler, judged the 
Class. This is the third time in 28 years of Junior Showmanship at 
Westminster that a lady Handler has judged the Class.   As the 
Juniors entered the ring, Mr& Spring, the announcer, stated over 
the public-address system that this was the 28th year that Westminster 
has held the Finals of the Junior Competition. Juniors competed 
last year at American Kennel Club and Canadian Kennel Club recognized 
shows to be eligible to compete in this Class- the Finals 
for the year. A Junior who won two or more wins in the Open Class 
was eligible.   (The purpose of the Junior Showmanship Competition 
is to teach and encourage Juniors to become good sportsmen. Many 
adults showing at Westminster today are products of this Class.)

It seemed an almost impossible job for Miss Rogers to select 
4 winners from the 46 Juniors entered. A large number of these Juniors 
have 7 and 8 wins to their credit and are seasoned campaigners.

After the judge moved all the dogs individually, she selected 
several from the group and placed them in the center of the ring. She 
then went over them thoroughly giving each a strenuous test in showmanship. 

#INTERNATIONAL CHAMPION OF THE YEAR#

BETTY LOU HAM, 
age 
16, Holyoke, Mass&, showing an Irish Setter, was chosen as International 
Champion of the year. She was awarded the Professional Handlers' 
Ass'ns' LEONARD BRUMBY, SR& Memorial Trophy 
(named for the FOUNDER-ORIGINATOR of the Junior Classes.)

Betty is 16 years of age and had several wins to her credit 
last year. In addition to showing an Irish Setter throughout the year, 
she also scored with an Afghan. 

#OTHER WINNERS#

SYDNEY LE 
BLANC, age 15, Staten Island, N&Y&, showing a Doberman Pinscher, 
was 2nd.   SUSAN HACKMANN, age 14, from Baltimore, 
Md&, showing a Dachshund, was 3rd. Last year Susan also placed 
3rd in the Finals at Westminster. From the records we keep- 
Susan is the only Junior who has placed in the Junior Classes in 
both United States and Canada.   KAREN MARCMANN, age 16, 
Trapp, Penna&, showing a Keeshond was 4th.   Most Juniors 
who were entered in the Finals are seasoned campaigners and not only 
show and win in Junior Classes but score in the Breed Classes as 
well. 

#ENTRIES INCREASING- REQUIREMENTS RAISED#

In 1960, there 
were 7287 entries in the Junior Classes. Each year these shows have 
increased in entries. Next year 1962, at Westminster, the Bench Show 
Committee has raised the requirements so that a JUNIOR MUST WIN 
3 OR MORE JUNIOR CLASSES IN THE OPEN DIVISION ONLY TO QUALIFY FOR WESTMINSTER.

PERCY ROBERTS, a leading judge will not be 
at the International Show this year for the Junior Judging Contest 
as he has been invited to judge in Australia in March. 

#JUDGING 
CLASS FOR INTERMEDIATES PROPOSED#

It has been suggested many times 
that a Class be set up for the Juniors who are overage and cannot enter 
the Junior Classes. For some time this writer has been suggesting 
a Junior Judging Class for Intermediates over 16 and under 20 years 
of age who are ineligible to compete in the Junior Class.

Such a Class was tried out successfully at the Westchester ~KC 
Show recently. Not only were the contestants pleased with the Class, 
but it aroused the interest of all in attendance that day. The Intermediates 
in the Class with the Judge were asked to pick 4 winners 
and give their reasons but their decisions did not affect the choice 
of the Judge.   We suggested this Class in the horse world and 
it was accepted immediately and included in the programs of horse shows 
At the recent horse show convention in New York it was stated 
that this Intermediate Judging Class is meeting with great success 
and will be a great help to future judges in the horse world. 
This Class can be just as successful in the dog world if it is given 
a chance. Last year Robert Harris, a leading Junior Handler entered 
the Dog Judging Contest (Junior) at the International ~KC 
of Chicago show and had the highest score in judging of any Junior 
since the Class' inception. Juniors who attend this Chicago show 
should make a point to enter this Class as it would be of great help 
to them. 

#MORE VOLUNTEER HANDLERS NEEDED TO JUDGE#

Superintendents 
at dog shows state it is becoming more difficult to obtain a licensed 
Handler to Judge Junior Showmanship Competition. The founder of 
the Junior Showmanship Competition the late Leonard Brumby, Sr& 
(for whom the trophy is named after at Westminster) was an outstanding 
Handler and believed a Junior should have an opportunity to exhibit 
in a dog show starting with the Junior Showmanship Division.

Some years ago this Class was judged by celebrities who knew 
nothing of what was required of a Junior's ability to show a dog. To 
overcome this unfair judging, the A&K&C& requires that a licensed 
Handler be present to judge the Class. If the superintendents 
do not receive more cooperation from Handlers, it has been suggested 
that licensed Judges also be qualified to judge this Class. By recognizing 
and helping Juniors get interested in the dog world, all will 
be helping to create future dog owners. 

#OTHER AWARDS FOR JUNIORS# 

The Airedale 
Terrier Club of America and the Kerry Blue Terrier 
Club of America have under consideration donating trophies to 
the boys or girls who win with their breeds in Junior Showmanship Competition 
at any Show. The Kansas City and the Topeka ~KCs 
are arranging that Juniors who win at their shows will be qualified to 
win points for Westminster. The Rio Grande ~KC is also considering 
having their Junior Classes set up so that Juniors can qualify 
with points for Westminster.   The American Pointer Club 
is still continuing to donate a trophies to Juniors who win at Junior 
Showmanship Classes with Pointers.

Traveling through the South- over 16,000 miles- with two 
Great Danes, an Afghan, and a Persian kitten, we've worked up a 
regular routine for acceptance at motels.   My husband enters the 
motel office, signs up for a room, and them solemnly asks the proprieter 
if he accepts pets. "Puppies"? comes the suspicious question. 
"No", he replies, "full grown, adult show dogs, housebroken, 
and obedience-trained".   We've never been refused!

Once settled, we're careful to walk the dogs in an out of the way 
spot, keep them under control in the room, and feed and bench them where 
they can't do any harm to the furnishings or the furniture.

In the morning we leave the room looking as neat as a pin!

Many a motel owner- when we've stopped there again- has remembered 
us and has said he preferred our dogs to most children.

So many times I have wondered why veterinarians do not wipe the 
table clean before each new canine patient is placed on it for examination. 
Is it that they don't care? Are they indifferent to the 
fact that the dog can easily pick up germs from the preceding patient?

AT ONE TIME, to most Americans, unless they were fortunate 
enough to live near a body of navigable water, boats were considered 
the sole concern of fishermen, rich people, and the United States 
Navy.   Today the recreational boating scene is awash with heartening 
statistics which prove the enormous growth of that sport. There 
are more than 8,000,000 recreational boats in use in the United States 
with almost 10,000,000 the prediction for within the next decade. 
About 40,000,000 people participated in boating in 1960. Boating has 
become a giant whose strides cover the entire nation from sea to shining 
sea. Boats are operated in every state in the Union, with the heaviest 
concentrations along both coasts and in the Middle West.

The spectacular upsurge in pleasure boating is markedly evident, 
expectedly, in the areas where boats have always been found: the natural 
lakes, rivers, and along the nation's coastline. But during the 
last several years boats were launched in areas where, a short time 
ago, the only water to be found was in wells and watering troughs for 
livestock.   Developed as a result of the multi-purpose resources 
control program of the government, vast, man-made bodies of water represent 
a kind of glorious fringe benefit, providing boating and fishing 
havens all over the country.   No matter how determined or wealthy 
boating lovers of the Southwest had been, for example, they could 
never have created anything approaching the fifty square-mile Lake 
Texoma, located between Texas and Oklahoma, which resulted when the 
Corp of Army Engineers dammed the Red River. In 1959, according 
to the Engineers, Lake Texoma was only one of thirty-two artificial 
lakes and reservoirs which were used for recreation by over 1,000,000 
persons.   Where an opportunity to enjoy boating has not been 
created by bringing bodies of water to the people, means have been found 
to take the people and their boats to the water. Providing these 
means are about ninety companies which manufactured the estimated 1,800,000 
boat trailers now in use. It is a simple task to haul a boat fifty 
or one hundred miles to a lake or reservoir on the new, light, strong, 
easy-to-operate trailers which are built to accommodate almost any 
kind of small boat and retail from $100 to $2,000. The sight of 
sleek 
inboards, outboards, and sailboats being wheeled smartly along highways 
many miles from any water is commonplace.   Boatmen lucky enough 
to have facilities for year 'round anchorage for their craft, 
will recall the tedious procedure of loading their gear into the car, 
driving to the water, 
and making trip after trip to transfer the gear to 
the boat. Today, the boat, on its trailer, is brought to the gear and 
loaded at the door. Arriving at the waterside, the boat is launched, 
the family taken aboard and, that easily, another day afloat is begun.

And trailers for boats are not what they started out to be 
ten years ago. This year, Americans will discover previously unheard 
of refinements in trailers that will be exhibited in about one hundred 
of our nation's national, regional and local boat shows. The boats 
of America's trailer sailors in 1961 will be coddled on clouds as 
they are hauled to new horizons.   The variety of craft on the 
country's waters today is overwhelming. They range from an eight-foot 
pram, which you can build yourself for less than $50, to auxiliary 
sailboats which can cost over $100,000. Boat prices vary according to 
the buyer's desires or needs. In this respect, boats can be compared 
with houses. There is no limit to what you can spend, yet it is easily 
possible to keep within a set budget. There is no question as to 
just what is available. You name it, our industry is producing it, and 
it probably is made in different models.   There are canoes ideal 
for fishing in protected waters or for camping trips. There are 
houseboats which are literally homes afloat, accommodating whole families 
in comfort and convenience. You can cross an ocean in a fully equipped 
craft, sail, power, or both, or laze away a fine day in a small 
dinghy on a local pond.   You may have your boat of wood, canvas, 
plywood, plastic, or metal. You may order utility models, inboard or 
outboard, with or without toilets, galleys, and bunks. You may dress 
it up with any number of accessories or keep it as simple as you choose.

Designers and manufacturers have produced models for purchasers 
who run the gamut from a nautical version of the elderly Pasadena 
lady who never drove more than five miles an hour on her once-a-month 
ride around the block, to the sportiest boatman who insists on all 
the dash, color, flair and speed possible to encompass in a single boat. 
You pay your money and you take your choice.   American technology 
in engine and hull design is largely responsible for the plentiful 
interest in American boating. I wonder if anyone ever bothered 
to make the point that when it comes to boats and their motors, Americans 
excel over any country in the world in the long run.   Russia, 
whose technology is not quite primitive, is still in the dark ages 
when it comes to improving the outboard motor, for instance.   Now 
here is truly a marvel. The outboard engine of today has a phenomenal 
range of one to 80 horsepower, unheard of a few years ago for a two 
cycle engine in quantity production. These engines can be removed 
from a boat with relative ease, wherein lies their greatest advantage. 
Their cost is not beyond the hopes of the American pocketbook, the 
range being about $150 to $1,000, depending on size.   Great 
thought 
has been given to making life easier for the growing boating population 
of the country; and to making the owning of a boat simpler. There 
was a time when, if a man wanted to purchase a boat, it was necessary 
for him to be able to produce a sizeable amount of cash before he 
could touch the tiller or wheel. Having a boat financed through a local 
bank is done much the same way as an automobile loan is extended. 
Marine dealers and even some manufacturers who sell direct in non-dealer 
areas cooperate in enabling you to launch now and pay later.

Terms range from one to five years and the interest rates and down 
payments run about the same as for automobiles. Of course, individual 
financing arrangements depend a good deal on the purchaser's earning 
power, credit rating and local bank policy.   Outboard motors, 
insurance, and boat repairs may also be financed in the same way as 
boats. Terms and rates of interest for motors generally follow those 
for home appliances.   When the automobile was in its embryonic 
stage, such roads as existed were pretty much open roads with the tacit 
understanding that horses should not be unduly terrified being about 
the only rule governing where, when and how fast a car could go. When 
air travel was in its infancy, the sky was considered big enough and 
high enough for all. Man had enough to worry about managing to get 
up there and stay without being burdened with rules once aloft. It was 
much the same with pleasure boating at first. Come one, come all, the 
water's fine!   As the ungoverned days of the automobile 
and the airplane are long since relegated to the past, so is the carefree 
attitude toward what a boatman may and may not do; must and should 
do. However, there is a minimum of legislative restriction on boating.

Laws on boating vary according to the state in which the 
craft is to be used and according to its horsepower. What may be acceptable 
in one state may be strictly prohibited across the boundary line. 
The main requirement is to be sure the boat is numbered according 
to the regulations of the state in which the boat will be principally 
used. If your state has no provisions for the numbering of pleasure 
boats, you must apply for a number from the U&S& Coast Guard for 
any kind of boat with mechanical propulsion rated at more than 10 horsepower 
before it can be used on Federal waterways.   State numbering 
laws differ from each other in many ways. Fees are not the 
same 
and some states do not require certain craft, such as sailboats with 
no power, to be registered at all. Many states have laws regulating 
the use of boat trailers and some have restrictions regarding the age 
of motor boat operators.   Generally, states reserve for communities 
the right to have local ordinances regulating speed and other activities. 
It is always wise to consult your marine dealer, local yacht 
or boat club secretary, or local law enforcement officers if you are 
not positive what the regulations are. Ignorance of the law is no better 
excuse on the water than it is on land; lack of ability and common 
sense can lead to just as much tragedy.   Hand in hand with 
the legislative program is the industry's self originated and directed 
safety program. Foreseeing the possible threats to safety with the 
rapid growth of the sport, the industry has been supporting an intense, 
coordinated educational program with great success since 1947.

A primary factor in the success of the safety program has been the 
enthusiastic cooperation of the individual manufacturers. The industry 
has been its own watch dog. With U&S& Coast Guard cooperation, 
the American Boat and Yacht Council was formed to develop recommended 
practices and standards for boats and their equipment with reference 
to safety.   Industry interest in safety goes even farther. 
In 1959, the Yacht Safety Bureau was reorganized by the National 
Association of Engine and Boat Manufacturers and a group of insurance 
underwriters to provide a testing laboratory and labeling service 
for boats and their equipment. A new waterfront site for the bureau 
is now being built at Atlantic City, New Jersey, to provide the 
most modern marine testing facilities as a further tool to keep the 
sport safe.   In addition to these activities, the ~NAEBM, 
with headquarters at 420 lexington Avenue, New York City, as well 
as other associations and individual manufacturers, provide and distribute 
films, booklets, and public services in regard to proper boat handling 
and safety afloat.   It is important to note the work of 
the United States Power Squadrons and the U&S& Coast Guard 
Auxiliary. Each of these fine groups gives free boating classes in 
seamanship piloting and small boat handling. These are not governmentally 
subsidized organizations. This year, over 100,000 persons will 
receive this free instruction.   As America on wheels was responsible 
for an industry of motor courts, motels, and drive-in establishments 
where you can dine, see a movie, shop, or make a bank deposit, 
the ever-increasing number of boating enthusiasts have sparked industries 
designed especially to accommodate them. Instead of motels, for 
the boatman there are marinas.   The word marina was coined by 
~NAEBM originally to describe a waterfront facility where recreational 
boats could find protection and basic needs to lay over in relative 
comfort. Currently, marina is used to indicate a municipal or 
commercially operated facility where a pleasure boat may dock and findsome 
or all of the following available: gasoline, fresh water, electricity, 
telephone service, ice, repair facilities, restaurants, sleeping 
accommodations, a general store, and a grocery store.   Yachtel, 
a relatively new word, indicates a waterfront type of hotel where 
a yachtsman may dock and find overnight accommodations on the premises 
as well as other services. Boatel has a similar meaning to yachtel. 
It indicates the same thing but it is meant to pertain more specifically 
to establishments designed to cater to smaller type boats such as 
outboards. Regardless of nomenclature, yachtels and boatels are marinas.

Boatyards which also provide some of the above facilities 
may rightfully be called marinas.   A recent survey disclosed there 
are about 4,000 commercially and municipally operated marinas and 
boatyards in the United States, the majority of which are equipped 
to handle outboard boats. 
THE design of a mechanical interlocking frame is much like a mechanical 
puzzle, but once understood, the principles can be applied to 
any track and signal arrangement. In the frame are two sets of bars 
which interact with each other to prevent the operator from making dangerous 
moves. The main set of bars are the "tappets" and one tappet 
is connected to each lever. If the lever is pulled to clear a signal 
or move a switch, the tappet moves a short distance lengthwise at 
the same time.   Close behind the plane of the tappets are the locking 
bars. These can also move a short distance but at right angles 
to the tappets. The number of locking bars required depends on how many 
false moves must be prevented.   In the sides of the tappets 
are notches with sloping sides, and connection between the tappets and 
locking bars consist of cams called "dogs". Two or more dogs are 
mounted on each locking bar. These slide into and out of the notches 
in the tappets as the tappets are moved, locking and unlocking them.

Here's how the scheme works: Suppose the operator pulls 
the lever to clear a particular signal. This also pulls the tappet connected 
to the particular lever and forces any dogs seated in the notches 
to the side, thus moving one or more locking bars. The dogs on the 
other ends of these locking bars are thus forced into notches in other 
tappets. By this scheme, pulling one signal to clear locks all the 
other switch and signal levers in safe positions until the first signal 
is again restored to normal.   Interlocking signals are normally 
at stop or "red" position, and a lever must be pulled to "clear" 
the signal. This is not necessarily to green, however, for in 
some situations only a yellow indication is given to a train to let it 
into the "plant".   There are other basic rules. A turnout 
may have two levers, one to actually move the switch points, the other 
to lock the points. A signal cannot be cleared until all the related 
turnouts are properly thrown <and> locked. Such locks are nearly 
always used where the switch points "face" oncoming traffic. The 
lock insures that the points are thrown all the way with no chance that 
a wheel flange will snag on a partly thrown point. If the points aren't 
thrown all the way, the turnout cannot be locked, and in turn, 
the signal cannot be cleared. Generally, these locks on turnouts are 
called "facing point locks".   Figs& 1-6 show typical arrangements 
of track and signals. Each diagram is accompanied by a "dog 
chart", a list of the levers that show which other levers any particular 
lever will lock if pulled. The lines connecting the wedge-shaped 
dogs represent the locking bars at right angles to the tappet bars.

By studying the track-signal diagrams you'll note several 
other details. Derails- mechanical track devices that actually guide 
the wheels off the rails if a train passes a "stop" signal- are 
used in many instances. "Home" signals have two blades. The blacked-in 
blades indicate a fixed aspect- the blade does not move. As 
an engineer approaches the plant the position of the home signal 
is seen in advance when he passes the "distant" signal located 
beyond the limits of the interlocking plant. In some low-speed situations, 
the distant signal is fixed at caution. In other instances where 
there is no automatic block signaling, the distant has only green 
and yellow aspects.   So much for the prototype.   The interlocking 
frame we built at the MODEL RAILROADER workshop and then 
installed on Paul Larson's railroad follows the Fig& 1 scheme 
and is shown beginning in Fig& 7, page 65, and in the photos. Here's 
how it can be built. 

#FRAME#

The sizes of pieces needed 
for the interlocking frame are shown in the notes within Fig& 7, most 
of the bars being 1/8'' brass in 1/4'' and 1/2'' widths. 
You may change the dimensions to suit a frame for more or fewer levers 
and locks as you wish. Our instructions assume you are building 
this particular frame, which is for a junction.   When cutting 
the pieces, dress the ends smooth, and square with a smooth file or sanding 
disk. Start with the right-hand piece "~B", **f, soldering 
it to the lower piece "~A" of the same material but 12'' 
long. Let exactly 1'' of "~A" extend beyond "~B" and 
use a square to check your angle to exactly 90 degrees.   Now 
lay 12 pieces of **f cut 5-3/4'' long side by side but separated 
by 12 pieces of the same material 1/2'' sq&. This gives you the 
spacing for locating the left-hand piece "~B". Compress the assembly 
when you make the mark to show the location for "~B". Solder 
this second "~B" to "~A" at right angles. There 
should be 10'' between the two parallel members and each should be 
1'' from an end of the long piece.   Cap this assembly (with 
spacing bars in place) with a **f bar. Tack-solder all the 1/2'' 
sq& pieces to the 10'' and 12'' members. These will be drilled 
and tapped later on.   Now cut five **f locking bar spacers 
(which run horizontally). Position these using six intermediate temporary 
**f spacers and locate the upper 12'' bar "~A". Solder 
it and the five locking bar spacers to the frame. Now place 12 pieces 
1/2'' sq& on this edge as we did before and space them with 
the 5-3/4'' long "tappets", as they are called. Cap with a **f 
bar and tack-solder in place. Cap the locking bar spacers with two 
**f directly under the first two "~B" pieces. Remove all the 
loose spacing bars.   Mark and center-punch all the holes required 
for screws to hold this assembly together. See Fig& 7. Placement 
of these holes is not critical, but they should be located so that 
the centers are about 1/8'' from any edge. Drill all No& 50 and 
counter-drill all except the "~A" pieces size 43. Tap the "~A" 
pieces 2-56.   Now unsolder and disassemble the frame 
except for the two 12'' and the first two 3-3/4'' bars ("~A" 
and "~B" pieces), which are soldered together. Either lay 
the components aside in proper order or code them with numbers and letters 
so they may be replaced in their proper positions. Dress all surfaces 
with a file, cleaning off all solder and drilling burrs.

Drill 20 No& 47 holes in the upper piece "~A" as shown in 
Fig& 7. Tap these 3-48 for mounting the electrical contact later 
on. Note 6 and 8 lock levers don't require holes for contacts.

Now reassemble the frame, using **f roundhead steel screws and nuts. 
Put the 12 tappets and some **f locking bar spacers in the frame to 
help align all the components before you tighten the screws. Be sure 
the tappets are not pinched by a twisted 1/2'' sq& spacer. As 
an anchor for the spring lock, insert a **f bar in the lower left corner 
of the frame as shown in Fig& 7. Drill a No& 43 hole through 
the pieces and secure with a 2-56 nut and screw. Drill two No& 50 
holes, one in the insert and one in the locking bar spacer directly 
above it, and tap 2-56. Number all the tappet bars before removing them 
so they can be replaced in the same slots. Remove all other loose 
pieces and file the edges of the basic frame smooth. Cut five pieces 
of **f brass bar stock 3-3/4'' long. These are supporting members 
for the short locking bars. Locate their positions in Fig& 7 and 
drill No& 43 to match the corresponding holes in the frame. Cut off 
excess screw lengths and file flush with either frame or nut. Drill 
four No& 19 and four No& 28 holes in the 12'' long "~A" 
pieces. Locate the position from Fig& 7. 

#TAPPETS AND LOCKING 
BARS#

Draw-file No& 1 tappet to a smooth fit in its respective 
slot and square the ends. Break the end corners with a slight 45 degree 
chamfer. Drill a No& 50 hole 1-1/4'' from one end and tap 
2-56. (See Fig& 7.) Put a 2-56 roundhead screw into the hole, cut 
off the excess threads and file flush with the underside of the bar. 
To find the other stop screw position, insert the tappet into the frame 
and hold the screw head tight against the frame edge. Scribe a line 
across the bar on the other end of the tappet, 1/4'' plus half the 
diameter of the 2-56 screw head (about 5/64'') away from the frame 
edge. Total distance is about 21/64''. Tend to make this dimension 
slightly undersize so you can file the screw head to get exactly 
1/4'' tappet movement. Drill a No& 50 hole, tap 2-56 and insert 
a roundhead 2-56 screw as you did on the first end. Drill a No& 
47 hole crosswise through the tappet at the position shown in 
Figs& 
7 and 8. Repeat these drill and tap operations for each of the tappet 
bars.   To each tappet except 6 and 8, solder a **f piece of 
brass and file to the tapered shape shown in Figs& 6 and 8. These 
will serve as lifting pads for the electrical contacts.   Fitting 
the locking bars and making the locking pieces is a rather tedious job 
since stop screws, tappets and locking bars must be removed and replaced 
many times. As the work progresses the frame and moving parts become 
a sort of Chinese puzzle where several pieces must be removed before 
the part you are working on is accessible. A little extra work 
here will pay off with a smooth, snug-fitting machine when you are finished. 
Each completed locking bar should remain in place as the work 
progresses to insure snug fitting.   The order of fitting is not 
too important. However, we started with the first row of bars and worked 
our way back. Since the same method of shaping and fitting the dogs 
and notches is used throughout, we will only describe the construction 
of one locking bar. Figs& 7 and 8 give all pertinent dimensions. 
All the bars are cut from **f brass. The lengths of each piece are 
listed at the bottom of Fig& 7. Bar "~C" is 2-3/4'' long. 
Draw-file the edges, square up the ends and put a slight chamfer 
on the edges so they will not snag in the frame.   Fig& 8 gives 
the dimensions for locating the dog-pin holes. Center-punch and drill 
the No& 31 hole 7/16'' from one end of the bar. Chuck a length 
of 1/8'' dia& drill rod into a drill press or some similar turning 
device and while it is rotating file the end square and then file 
a slight taper 1/8'' long. Cut the piece about 9/32'' or 5/16'' 
long and drive it into the No& 31 hole drilled in the locking 
bar. File the bottom edge flush with the bar and the top 1/8'' 
above the bar. This dog will engage a notch to be cut in tappet 3.

Place the locking bar in proper position and insert tappet 3. 
Scribe a line through the center of the pin and across the face of 
tappet 3, parallel to piece "~A". See the drawings for the shape 
of the notch. Scribe ~V-shaped lines on the bar and rough out 
with either a hack saw or a cutting disk in a hand power tool. We used 
the latter equipped with a carborundum disk about .020'' thick and 
1'' dia& fitted on a 1/8'' dia& mandrel. Such disks are 
very handy for cutting and shaping small parts. File to a smooth finish. 
A Barrette Swiss pattern file is handy since its triangular 
shape with only one cutting face will allow you to work a surface without 
marring an adjoining one. Endeavor to get the notches as much alike 
as possible. The notch should have a smooth finish so that the steel 
dog will slide easily over it. Assemble the parts in the frame and 
test the sliding action of the mating pieces. All matching surfaces 
should be checked frequently and mated on a cut and fit basis. 
Chuck a 2'' or 3'' piece of 1/8'' dia& drill rod in a 
drill press or 
electric hand tool. Fashion a sharp scribing point about 3/64'' 
long on one end, using Swiss pattern files. This tool can also be 
made with a lathe.

Scientists say that the world and everything in it are based on 
mathematics. Without math the men who are continually seeking the causes 
of and the reasons for the many things that make the world go 'round 
would not have any means of analyzing, standardizing, and communicating 
the things they discover and learn. Math and the formulas that 
allow it to be applied to different problems are, therefore, essential 
to any scientific endeavor.   Hot rodding is a science. It's 
not a science as involved as determining what makes the earth rotate 
on its axis or building a rocket or putting a satellite into orbit 
but it is, nevertheless, a science. But because science is based on mathematics 
doesn't mean that a hot rodder must necessarily be a mathematician. 
A guy can be an active and successful hot rodder for years 
without becoming even remotely involved with mathematical problems; 
however, he will have a clearer understanding of what he is doing and 
the chances are he will be more successful if he understands the few 
formulas that apply to rodding.   A mathematical formula is nothing 
more than a pattern for solving a specific problem. It places the 
various factors involved in the problem in their correct order in relation 
to each other so that the influence of factors on each other can 
be computed.   The first step in using a formula is to insert the 
numerical values of the factors involved in their correct positions 
in the formula. This changes the formula to an "equation". The 
equation is used for the mathematical process of solving the problem.

Equations for rodding formulas are not complicated. They involve 
only simple mathematics that are taught in grammar school arithmetic 
classes. However, it is essential that the various mathematical symbols 
used in the equations be understood so that the mathematical processes 
can be done properly and in their correct order. They indicate 
simple division, multiplication, subtraction, and addition.   The 
symbol for division is a straight line that separates two numbers 
placed one above the other. The lower number is always divided into the 
upper number: **f   The symbol for multiplication is "~@". 
It is used to separate two or more numbers in a row. For example: 
**f Numbers to be multiplied together may be multiplied in any 
order. The result will be the same regardless of the order used.

The symbol for subtraction is the standard minus sign. This is 
nothing more than a dash. It separates two or more numbers. The number 
on the right of the symbol is always subtracted from the number on 
the left of the symbol. For example: **f When more than two figures 
are separated by subtraction symbols the subtraction must be carried 
out from the left to right if the result is to be correct. For example, 
for the problem **f, 10 from 25 equals 15, then 6 from 15 equals 
9.   Addition is indicated by the ~+ symbol. The symbol is 
used to separate two or more numbers. For example: **f Numbers separated 
by addition symbols may be placed in any order.   When solving 
an equation that involves division as well as other steps, do all 
the division steps first 
to reduce those parts of the equation to their 
numerical value. Multiplication, subtraction, and addition can then 
be accomplished as they appear in the equation by starting at the left 
end of the equation and working toward the right. Completing the 
division first also includes those division parts that require multiplication, 
subtraction, or addition steps: **f This would be reduced 
by multiplying 8 times 6 and then dividing the product by 12. This part 
of the equation would then become 4.   For use in formulas, fractions 
should be converted to their decimal equivalents. The easiest 
way to do this is with a conversion chart. Charts for this purpose 
are available from many sources. They are included in all types of mathematical 
handbooks and they are stamped on some types of precision 
measuring instruments.   The various mathematical processes can 
be simplified by carrying the results to only two or three decimal places. 
Shortening the results in this manner will not have any detrimental 
effect on the accuracy of the final result.   Some formulas 
contain "constants". A constant is a number that remains the same 
regardless of the other numbers used in the formula and the resultant 
equation. It is a number without which the equation cannot be solved 
correctly.   Rodding formulas apply to many phases of the sport. 
The answers they give can often pave the way to performance increases 
and, 
quite often, are necessary for completing entry blanks for different 
events. When it is needed, one formula is as important as another. 
However, some formulas are used more than others. We'll take 
them in the general order of their popularity. 

#ENGINE DISPLACEMENT# 

A rodder should be able to compute the displacement of his engine. 
Displacement is sometimes referred to as "swept volume". Most 
entry blanks for competitive events require engine displacement information 
because of class restrictions. It is good to be able to compute 
displacement so that changes in it resulting from boring and stroking 
can be computed.   Factors involved in the displacement formula 
are the bore diameter of the engine's cylinders, the length of the 
piston stroke, the number of cylinders in the engine, and a constant. 
The constant is .7854, which is one-quarter of 3.1416, another constant 
known as "pi". Pi is used in formulas concerned with the dimensions 
of circles.   Actually, the engine displacement formula is 
the standard formula for computing the volume of a cylinder of any type 
with an added factor that represents the number of cylinders in the 
engine. The cross-sectional area of the cylinders is determined and 
then the volume of the individual cylinders is computed by multiplying 
the area by the stroke length, which is the equivalent of the length 
of the cylinders. Multiplying the result by the number of cylinders 
in the engine gives the engine's total displacement.   The formula 
is: **f. Dimensions in inches, and fractions of inches will give 
the displacement in cubic inches. Dimensions in centimeters and fractions 
of centimeters will give the displacement in cubic centimeters 
(~cc). One inch equals 2.54 centimeters: one cubic inch equals 16.38 
cubic centimeters.   For example, let's consider a standard 
283 cubic inch Chevy ~V8. These engines have a cylinder diameter 
of 3-7/8 inches and a stroke length of 3 inches. The formula, with 
the fractions converted to decimals, becomes **f.   To arrive 
at the answer, multiply the numbers together by starting at the left of 
the group and working to the right. The different steps will look like 
this: **f 

#COMPRESSION RATIO#

A cylinder's compression ratio 
is computed by comparing the cylinder's volume, or its displacement, 
with the total volume of the cylinder and its combustion chamber. 
Cylinder volume can be determined mathematically but combustion chamber 
volume must be measured with a liquid.   Cylinder volume is 
determined in exactly the same manner as for the displacement formula: 
**f.   To measure the volume of one of the combustion chambers 
in the cylinder head, install the valves and spark plug in the chamber 
and support the head so that its gasket surface is level. Then pour 
water or light oil from a graduated beaker into the chamber to fill 
the chamber to its gasket surface. Do not overfill the chamber. This 
is possible with water and other liquids that have a high surface tension. 
Such liquids will rise to a considerable height above the surface 
around the chamber before they will flow out of the chamber.

The amount of liquid poured into the chamber is determined by subtracting 
the quantity still in the beaker when the chamber is full from 
the original quantity. Most beakers are graduated in cubic centimeters 
(~cc), making it necessary to convert the result to cubic inches. 
However, the displacement of the cylinder can be converted to cubic 
centimeters. The compression ratio arrived at with the formula will 
be the same regardless of whether cubic inches or cubic centimeters are 
used. The only precaution is that all volumes used in the formula be 
quoted in the same terms.   The volume of the cylinder opening 
in the head gasket must be computed by multiplying its area in square 
inches by the gasket's thickness in thousandths of an inch. Sometimes 
it is necessary to roughly calculate the square inch area of the opening 
but the calculation can usually be made with sufficient accuracy 
that it won't affect the final computation. The volume of the opening 
is added to the combustion chamber volume.   Another thing 
that must be taken into consideration is the volume of the area between 
the top of the piston and the top of the cylinder block when the piston 
is in top dead center position. Compute this volume by measuring 
the distance from the top of the block to the piston head as accurately 
as possible with a depth micrometer or some other precision measuring 
device and then multiply the area of the cylinder by the depth. The 
formula for this step is: **f This volume is added to the total volume 
of the combustion chamber and head gasket opening. The total of 
these three volumes is the "final combustion chamber volume".

After the factors just described have been computed, they are applied 
to the following formula: **f   For an example let's dream 
up an engine that has a final combustion chamber volume of 5 cubic 
inches and a cylinder volume of 45 cubic inches. Applying these figures 
to the formula we get the equation: **f The compression ratio is 
10 to 1.   This method of computing compression ratio cannot be 
used accurately for engines that have pistons with either domed or irregularly 
shaped heads. Any irregularity on the piston heads will make 
it impossible, with normal means, to determine the final combustion 
chamber volume because the volume displaced by the piston heads cannot 
be readily computed. The only way to determine the final combustion 
chamber volume when such pistons are used is by measuring it with liquid 
while the cylinder head is bolted to the cylinder block and the piston 
is in top dead center position. 

#GEAR RATIO- SPEED RELATIONSHIPS# 

There are four versions of the formula that involves the relationships 
of car speed, engine speed, rear axle gear ratio, and rear tire 
size. By using the appropriate version any one of these factors can 
be determined for any combination of the other three.   To simplify 
the formulas a representative symbol is substituted for each of 
the factors. These are   ~MPH for Car speed   ~RPM 
for Engine crankshaft speed   ~R for Rear axle gear ratio

~W for Tire size   Tire size can be determined in 
several ways but the one that is the easiest and as accurate as any is 
by measuring the effective radius of a wheel and tire assembly. This 
is done by measuring the distance from the surface on which the tire 
is resting to the center of the rear axle shaft. A tire must be inflated 
to its normal hot operating pressure and the car must be loaded to 
its operating weight when this measurement is made. The measurement 
must be in inches. Any fraction of an inch involved in the measurement 
must be converted to a decimal equivalent to simplify the mathematics. 
When tire size is measured in this manner a constant of 168 is used 
in the formula.   To determine car speed for a given combination 
of engine speed, gear ratio, and tire size, the formula is: **f 
For an engine speed of 5000 ~rpm, a gear ratio of 4.00 to 1, and a 
tire radius of 13 inches, the equation would look like this: **f

To determine engine speed for a given combination of the other three 
factors the formula is: **f Using the same figures as for the 
previous example, the equation becomes: **f   To determine the 
rear axle gear ratio for a combination of the other three factors, the 
formula is: **f Using the figures from the previous examples, the 
equation becomes: **f 

#ORLANDO, FLA&, FEB& 2#- The best 2-year-old pacing mile up 
to date at Ben White Raceway has been that of Mary Liner (Mainliner-Highland 
Ellen), a member of the Dick Williams stable, who was 
clocked 2:25. She is owned by Ralph H& Kroening, Milwaukee, 
Wis&, who, according to the railbirds, can feel justly proud of her.

Other good miles have been by Debonnie (Dale Frost-Debby 
Hanover) and Prompt Time (Adios-On Time) in 2:28-:36; 
Kimberly Gal (Galophone-Kimberly Hanover) 2:26.2; Laguerre 
Hanover 
(Tar Heel- Lotus Hanover) and Monel (Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd) 
in 2:34~h. Laguerre Hanover is outstanding in type and conformation- 
good body, plenty of heart girth, stands straight on his legs 
on excellent feet- and has the smoothest gait. This colt is behind 
most of the other 2-year-olds in the Simpson stable but can show 
about as much pace as any of them. Monel shows improvement with each 
work-out and looks the makings of a good brood mare after winning her 
share of races.   Stardel (Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover), 
2:34~h, looks quite promising. Fury Hanover (Hoot Mon-Fay), 
Caper (Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover) and Isaac (Hoot Mon-Goddess 
Hanover) have been working together but have not equalled their best 
work done some weeks ago. Fury and Caper worked in 2:35~h and did 
it with ease. They are two good colts of different type. Fury is 
upstanding and on the rangy side, and Caper is more the compact type. 
I have never seen Caper off his feet- he seems to know nothing but 
'trot' and keeps trying a little harder if asked to do so. Fury 
has made a few mistakes but looks like a wonderful prospect, with his 
impressive gait and stride which certainly make him cover the ground.

Trackdown (Torrid-Mighty Lady) has worked a mile in 2:33.3~h. 
It took this colt several weeks to strike a pace. Then, after 
emasculation, he was eased up for a couple of weeks. He has thrived 
on all he has gone through and looks the makings of a good little race 
horse.   Thor Hanover (Adios-Trustful Hanover) is a wonderful 
looking prospect and another good individual, with solid, rugged conformation, 
good, flat bone and excellent feet. This colt arrived at 
the Raceway early last November, and immediately was put into harness 
and line-driven for a few days, and then put to cart and broken in 
very nicely, knowing nothing but trot. He appeared in the hopples about 
November 14, was treated for worms on the 18th, the latter date being 
the first time he struck a real pace. On December 5 he paced a mile 
in 2:55 on the twice-around, out in third position all the way. 
This colt has done everything asked of him, and done it with ease. His 
best mile to date is 2:32.2~h.   Gamecock (Tar Heel-Terka 
Hanover) is another promising colt, and his best time is 2:32.2~h. 
This is one of the best-tempered Tar Heels ever at the center. 
The first time he was harnessed he stood like a gentle old mare; 
the crupper under his tail seemed to be old stuff. The fourth time in 
harness he walked off like a gentleman. Being blistered for curbs has 
delayed his work somewhat. But up to date he has shown as much as any 
in the big Simpson stable.   Hustler (Knight Dream-Torkin) 
is a playful bay rascal of a colt, not the best gaited, but he surely 
can pace and is right there with them, and sometimes leading them, in 
the best miles. Torrid Freight (Torrid-Breeze On Hal) is a very 
rugged, strong-made colt with a wonderful stride who has done with ease 
everything asked of him. His best time is around 2:33.   Strongheart 
(Adios-Direct Gal), a fair-looking sorrel colt, knows nothing 
but pace and has been right there in the best miles. Torrid Adios 
(Torrid-Adios Molly) is not so masculine as most of the colts, 
but I like his type and he certainly is one of the best-gaited pacers 
on the grounds. Blistered for curbs and laid off three weeks, he is 
coming along fine and looks like a pacer to me. First Flyer (Frisco 
Flyer-Castle Light) looks like a splendid candidate for the Illinois 
Stakes. His best time is 2:33.2~h.   The colts in Simpson's 
stable have little if anything on the fillies, especially the 
pacers. Justine Hanover (Sampson Hanover-Justitia Hanover) is 
improving with each work-out and paced 2:32.4~h weeks ago. 
Mrs& Freight (Knight Dream-Miss Reed) shows promise and does it 
in good form, and her best time is about 2:35. Hoopla (Tar Heel-Holiday 
Hanover), a filly that wanted to trot, knocked herself October 
31 and November 1 fighting the hopples. She was then trained on 
the trot until December 29, hitched to a breaking cart once around the 
half-mile track and hoppled again. This time she submitted and in 
a few days was going good. On January 11 she paced a mile in 2:43.1-:38~h; 
on Jan& 18 2:37.3-:36.1~h; on Jan& 21, 2:36. 
This filly is a much better individual than either of her full-sisters, 
Valentine Day and Cerise- more scale and much better underpinning. 
She is more like her full brother, Taraday Hanover, but 
larger. Up to date she is a grand-looking filly.   Pete Dailey 
has four promising 2-year-old pacers. Marquis Pick (Gene Abbe-Direct 
Grattan) seems to be the pick of the stable at the present time. 
He is a fine-looking colt with a good body, good set of legs and nice 
way of going. His best mile to date is 2:28-:33. Majestic Pick 
comes next, with a mile in 2:30-:33.2. This colt is another 
fine-looking equine. Staley Hanover (Knight Dream-Sweetmite Hanover) 
is a little on the small side but a very compact colt and looks 
like one to stand training and many future battles with colts in his 
class. Best time to date is 2:34-:34. Step Aside (Direct Rhythm-Wily 
Widow) has worked in 2:32 on the half-mile track and shows 
promise.   Most of Billy Haughton's 2-year-olds have worked 
from 2:40 to 2:35. Bonnie Wick (Gene Abbe-Scotch Mary) has 
gone in 2:36~h; Hickory Ash (Titan Hanover-Misty Hanover) 
in 2:35. The first time I saw the latter filly she trotted by me 
and I noticed such a family resemblance that I said to myself, "that 
must be Hickory Ash". She is a beautiful filly and likes to trot. 
Hickory Hill (Star's Pride-Venus Hanover) has gone in 2:33~h; 
Hickory Spark (Harlan-Hickory Tiny) 2:37~h; Buxton 
Hanover (Tar Heel-Beryl Hanover) 2:35; Faber's Kathy 
(Faber Hanover-Ceyway) 2:37~h; Honor Rodney (Rodney-Honor 
Bright) around 2:40. The last-named is a fine-looking, large colt, 
who has been unfortunate to be laid off for some time due to injuries. 
He is going sound again now, and looks good.   Brief Candle 
(Harlan-Marcia) has gone in 2:37~h; Lena Faber (Faber Hanover-Chalidale 
Lena) 2:33~h; Martha Rodney (Rodney-Miss Martha 
D&) 2:35~h; Checkit (Faber Hanover-Supermarket) 2:35~h; 
Charm Rodney (Rodney-The Charmer) 2:37~h; Fair 
Sail (Farvel-Topsy Herring) 2:36~h; Custom Maid (Knight Dream-Way 
Dream) 2:34.2~h; Jacky Dares (Meadow Gene-Princess 
Lorraine) 2:36~h; Good Flying (Good Time-Olivette Hanover) 
2:36~h; Bordner Hanover (Tar Heel-Betty Mahone) 2:34; 
Faber's Choice (Faber Hanover-Sally Joe Whippet) 2:36~h; 
Invercalt (Florican-Inverness) 2:35~h; Duffy Dares 
(Meadow Gene-Princess Mite) 2:36~h; Harold J& (Worthy Boy-Lady 
Scotland) 2:36; Knightfall (Knight Dream-Miss Worthy 
Grapes) 2:36~h; Next Knight (Knight Dream-Next Time) 2:36~h; 
Trader Jet (Florican-My Precious) 2:37~h; Trader 
Rich (Worthy Boy-Marquita Hanover) 2:37~h; Good Little 
Girl (Good Time-Mynah Hanover) 2:36~h; Iosola Hanover (Kimberly 
Kid-Isoletta Hanover) 2:36~h. The last-named is one 
of the favorites in the stable, and the boys like her very much. I will 
be able to tell you more about this string of equines in the near future.

I have just seen Debonnie and Prompt Time work a mile 
in 2:34, last quarter in :35.3. In going away Debonnie got behind 
several lengths, stalling at the start- she is a little fussy. They 
left the three-quarters together and finished almost together. Prompt 
Time shows class. This filly is another Adios that wants to trot, 
and trot she did until forced to do otherwise. After well broken 
and equipped with 12~oz shoes on behind, bare-footed in front, she 
would trot a real storm with the master, Delvin, driving. Being placed 
in the hopples she was completely baffled. She hesitated, she hopped, 
she roll and rocked, skipped and jumped, but in some two weeks she 
started to pace, From that time to this she has shown steady improvement 
and now looks like one of the classiest things on the grounds.

Rain on Friday prevented many workouts, but there were a few miles 
of note on Thursday. 
Those responsible included Stardel Hanover 
(Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover), 2:30-:34.3; Lorena Gallon 
(Bill Gallon-Loren Hanover), 2:30-:34.3; Prudent Hanover 
(Dean Hanover-Precious Hanover), 2:30.3-:35.3; Premium 
Freight (Titan Hanover-Pebble Hanover), 2:30.3-:35.3; Laguerre 
Hanover (Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover), 2:30.3-:36.1; Monel 
(Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd), 2:30.3-:36.1; Fury Hanover (Hoot 
Mon-Fay), 2:30.3-:36; Isaac (Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover), 
2:30.3-:36; Caper (Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover), 2:30.3-:36; 
Lucky Freight (Knight Dream-Lusty Helen), 2:31.3-:35.3.

Sam Caton's Butterwyn (Scotch Victor-Butler Wyn), 
a light bay filly, knows nothing but trot and has worked on the half-mile 
in 2:30-:36. Riverboat (Dalzell-Cousin Rachel) has gone in 
2:38~h. Sam is having his troubles with Layton Hanover (Dean 
Hanover-Lucy Hanover), but hope to have him straightened out and going 
before long.   Jimmy Jordon is high on Adios Scarlet (Adios-Rena 
Grattan) and she sure looks good as she goes by. Her best 
time to date is about 2:30~h. He also likes Hampton Hanover (Titan 
Hanover-Bertie Hanover) 2:37~h. Cathy J& Hanover (Tar 
Heel-Kaola Hanover), formerly called Karet Hanover, has been rather 
a problem child, but it getting better all the while and can pace 
a twice around in about 2:31. Armbro Comet (Nibble Hanover-Mauri 
Hanover) has been in 2:38.   Flick Nipe's and Neil Engle's 
Miss Phone (Galophone-Prissy Miss) is a fine-looking filly 
with good disposition and good gait, and she has worked up to date in 
2:46. 

#DEL MAR, CALIF&, FEB& 3#- After 52 rainless 
days, moisture finally came to Del Mar, resulting in but one workout 
during the week for most of the horses, and leaving us with less than 
half our total average rainfall during the season.   While 2-year-olds 
are still gaining most of the attention at the track, green 
horses are starting to go a bit, and Jimmy Cruise has several that 
can really make it. Work-outs for the week are as follows: Plain 
Scotch, 3 (by Scotch Victor), Demon Law, 3 (by Demon Hanover), 
Coffee Royal, ~p (by Royal Blackstone) and Beauty Way, ~p, 3 
(by Demon Hanover) in 2:25; Eddie Duke, ~p, 3 (by Duke of 
Lullwater), Marilyn C&, ~p (by Sampson Hanover) and Chalidale 
Barry, 5 (by King's Ransom) in 2:20; Tiger Hanover, ~p, 
3 (by Adios) in 2:26; Sherwood Lass, 4 (by Victory Song) in 2:22; 
and Dauntless, 3 (by Greentree Adios) in 2:32. For the 
aged horses: Mr& Budlong, ~p, 2:00.2~h, Lottie Thomas, ~p, 
2:04.2~h, Mighty Signal 2:03, Clever Braden, ~p, 2:01.1~h, 
and Glow Star, ~p, 2:02.3 have been in 2:35; Miss 
Demon Abbe, ~p, 1:59.3 has trotted in 2:26, and is expected to 
race at this gait; Carter Creed, ~p, 3, 2:01.1, Great Lullwater 
2:00.3, and Hi Jay, ~p, 2:05.1~h have been in 2:30; 
Tanker T&, 3, 2:05.3 is now wearing hopples and has trained in 
2:19; Stormy Dream, ~p, 2:01.3~h, Demon Abbe, ~p, 2:02, 
Dundeen B&, 4, 2:04.2~h, Claudia's Song, 3, 2:06.3~h, 
and (jet Fire, 4, 2:02.2 have been in 2:25; Maria Key, 2, 
2:06~h looked great in 2:22; Mocking Byrd, ~p, 2:01.1~h 
has been in 2:12, with a racing date approaching at Bay Meadows.

Dewey Urban has a clever green trotter in Dr& Orin I&, 
3 (by Yankee Hanover), his latest mile in 2:20; Victory Sun, 
~p, 2:04 has trained in 2:24; Early Sun, ~p, 2:02.3, Chester 
Maid 2:05, Dark Sun, ~p, 2:06.1, and Sun Tan Maid 
2:05.2 have been in 2:21.

The average reader of this magazine owns more than one gun (we 
ran a survey to find out) but he's always on the lookout for new and 
better arms. He's more than a reader of outdoor articles; he's 
a real hunter and shooter, eager to improve his sport. Well, if you're 
that kind of sportsman we're here to help you. You've probably 
given a lot of Christmas-season thought to the guns in your rack, 
but it's not easy to decide on a new one. You still have time to 
drop a few hints about the gifts you'd appreciate most; the time 
to decide on them is now. As a Christmas service, I've taken a close 
look at this year's crop of new models. Here they are, with my 
comments and judgments. Read on, take your pick- and start dropping 
those hints.   First on my own list would be two arms- a rifle 
and a handgun- that qualify as new in the strictest sense. 
For me, a changed barrel length or an improved stock doesn't constitute 
a truly new design. Such modifications are all for the best but 
it takes something as different as a Deerstalker or a Jet to change 
arms-making concepts.   Bill Ruger's long-awaited Deerstalker 
(under $110) is a new rifle action in a caliber that upsets all the 
modern theory of high-velocity fans; it's a short, light, quick-handling, 
fast-firing little timber gun designed to push a heavy slug 
at modest velocity but with lots of killing power and ample range for 
our most popular big game- whitetail.   Ruger reports that 
on his recent African safari the little .44 Magnum cartridge was a 
real work horse. Small antelope were generally grassed with one shot, 
and the .44 Magnum carbine also bagged reedbuck, kob and wart hog with 
deadly efficiency; these are fairly large, tough animals. 
The deadliness of the .44 Magnum in a rifle comes as no surprise to 
me. At least five years ago, Tom Robinson of Marlin made up an over/under 
double rifle for me in this caliber, using the now defunct Model 
90 action in 20-gauge size. After figuring out how to regulate the 
barrels so that they shot to the same point of impact, we fired this 
little 20-inch-barrel job on my home range and in Marlin's underground 
test gallery. We quickly ran into the same trouble that plagued Bill 
Ruger in his first experiments: Three or four bullets would be 
placed well in a six-inch bull at 100 yards and then, unaccountably, 
one could stray far out of the group.   Ruger learned that this 
was because the higher velocity achieved in a long barrel was upsetting 
the shape of the unjacketed revolver bullet. The new, jacketed slug 
in .44 Magnum corrected this. But even without jacketed bullets, I 
had enough faith in my double to take it on an opening-day deer hunt 
that first year. Within half an hour I jumped a six-point buck that 
hop-skipped through a rhododendron thicket, and I caught him just behind 
the left foreleg at 60 yards. He moved only about 30 feet after 
the 240-grain slug hit him- and this was after the bullet had passed 
through a sapling.   Three more deer have fallen to this same 
gun, and all were one-shot kills. My double was made with standard-weight 
revolver barrels (before cutting to revolver length), and although 
it compares well in other respects, it's considerably heavier than 
the Deerstalker, which only scales about 6-1/2 pounds.   If ever 
a rifle met the needs of the whitetail hunter, this is it. The Deerstalker 
points with the ease, speed and precision of a fine imported 
double shotgun, and its trigger pull is light and sharp. The 240-grain 
bullet leaves the muzzle at 1,850 ~fps, which gives it all the smash 
needed at woods ranges. With five shots at the immediate command 
of the hunter's trigger finger, the gun and load are a deadly combination.

The second really new development this year was a revolver 
handling a different sort of varmint load- the .22 Remington Jet 
Magnum Center Fire. At present it's available in one model, the 
fine and familiar Smith + Wesson Magnum revolver (about $110), 
long a top-quality handgun among target arms. The velocity of this .22-caliber, 
40-grain bullet is rated at a very hot 2,460 ~fps, and it's 
the flattest shooting of any revolver cartridge, with a mid-range 
rise of about an inch over a 100-yard range. This is a varmint load, 
pure and simple; it's much too explosive for small edible game. 
It can cut a red squirrel neatly in two or burst a crow into a flurry 
of feathers.   The most intriguing aspect of the ~S+W Magnum 
chambered for the new Jet is that it can also fire standard .22 rim-fires 
by means of adapter sleeves in the chambers. You may therefore 
convert the gun into a small-game and plinking arm, although the difference 
in the point of impact (Jet vs& rim-fire) can be somewhat disconcerting. 
The accuracy of the Jet cartridge is fine; I tested 
it in my scoped ~S+W and it was good enough to allow me to hit a 
chuck with every shot at 100 yards if I did my part by holding the handgun 
steadily. 

#HUNTING RIFLES, '61#

The fact that the Deerstalker 
and the Jet were the only completely new designs this year doesn't 
mean that 1961 didn't see changes in models, actions and calibers. 
Aside from the Ruger carbine, a number of hunting rifles have been 
introduced for the first time. Here are the brands (in alphabetical 
order) and the new models.   Newcomers to the American hunter 
are the Browning group of bolt-action, high-power rifles. They have 
fine ~FN actions and a better-than-average finish on both the metal 
and the stock wood. Barrel weights vary sensibly with the various 
calibers available, and these include the standard bores (about $165) 
plus the Magnums (around $170); the latter include the .264, .300 
~H+H, .338, .375 and .458. Shotgun-type rubber recoil pads are standard 
on all of the Magnums except the .264. Stock designs are excellent 
for use with scopes.   Colt's center-fire 1961 rifles are 
all made with Sako actions, regardless of caliber. The .222's have 
the short action; the .243 and .308, the medium action, and the .270, 
**f and the Magnums, the long action (about $135 for the Standard 
Coltsman and $200 for the Custom version). Previously, ~FN actions 
were used for the larger cartridges.   High standard has 
introduced a .22 auto, the Sport-King, in two grades- field and special 
(less than $45 and just over $45, respectively). It's a streamlined 
rifle, fast and well-made.   Among .22 Magnum Rim-Fire 
rifles, 1961's lone newcomer was the Kodiak Model 260 autoloader 
(around $60). Previously known as Jefferson Arms, Kodiak has given 
this 11-shot hammerless job an exceptionally fine stock design, and the 
260 is the first autoloader to handle .22 Magnum rim-fires.

Marlin 
has made two contributions to the harvest of new offerings. The 
Model 99 (under $45) is a light-weight, streamlined .22 rim-fire auto 
with a tubular magazine that holds 18 Long Rifles. It's extremely 
accurate for an auto, and the test rifle I tried was completely 
trouble-free in functioning. The 989 (about $40) is an even newer .22 
auto, this one with a seven- or 12-shot clip.   Once again the 
Mossberg Targo outfit has appeared, but this time as a bolt-action rifle-shotgun 
combination. The bore is unrifled but is provided with an 
insert tube which is rifled and which, surprisingly, gives pretty fair 
accuracy even though it's only 3-1/2 inches long. You can unscrew 
this tube and replace it with a smoothbore insert for use with .22 shotshells- 
to break the little Targo clay targets. A trap for throwing 
these miniature clays fastens to the barrel so that the shooter can 
throw his own targets. A spring trap for solid mounting and a regular 
hand trap are also available. You can have your choice of a seven-shot 
repeater, the ~340TR (about $40) or a single-shot, the ~320TR 
($10 less).   The Targo is a good outfit for fun shooting 
or for economic wing-shooting practice, but it's tougher than it looks 
to run up a score on the clay birds. They'll travel 50 feet or 
more when thrown from the spring trap but it's almost impossible to 
break one after it passes the 35-foot mark. The combination of thin 
pattern and very tiny pellets makes it necessary to get on the birds, 
right now!   Big Magnum calibers appeared in the Remington line 
for 1961, with the addition of the .375 and .458 to the list of Model 
725's. These are made on special order only, in Kodiak grade 
(about $310), with integral muzzle brakes and heavy rubber recoil pads; 
they weigh around nine pounds.   A shortened version of the 
highly regarded Remington 742 autoloader also appeared in 1961. This 
carbine (under $140, about $15 more for a deluxe grade) has an 18-1/2-inch 
barrel and was obviously inspired by the popularity of last year's 
Model 760 pump with a short-barrel. This design is hard to beat 
for timber hunting or for packing in a saddle scabbard. Presently, 
the ~742C is available in **f.   The latest versions of the famous 
Savage Model 99 are the 99 Featherweight (about $125) and the 
99 Deluxe (under $135), which have a top-tang safety and improved trigger 
design. The replacement of the slide-lock side safety catch will 
make this lever-action favorite more appealing than ever since the new 
safety is easier and faster to operate. 

#BEGINNERS' GUNS, '61# 

A fresh crop of beginners' guns showed up in 1961, and they're 
good bets for your Christmas gift list if you're wondering what to 
get for a youngster. The most unusual of them is the Ithaca 49 (about 
$20, $5 for a saddle scabbard)- a lever-action single-shot patterned 
after the famous Winchester lever-action and featuring the Western 
look. Because of its traditional lines, it probably has more kid 
appeal than any other model. The action is a drop-block, handling all 
the standard .22 rim-fires.   Marlin's latest is also designed 
for the beginning shooter, although it's a full-sized rifle with plenty 
of barrel weight and ample stock. This is the Model 122 (about 
$20); it's a single-shot bolt-action with an automatic safety- 
i&e&, the safety goes on every time the bolt is lifted and the gun 
cocked for the next shot. Stock design is excellent, and this model 
is a good first gun. Another boy's model is the .22 single-shot Remington 
~514C (around $20), which comes with a 21-inch barrel and a 
short- 12-1/2-inch- stock; it's just right for a boy of 12-1/2.

A beginner's shotgun has also been introduced this year. 
The single-barrel Stevens ~940Y (under $35) is made with a side lever 
rather than a top-tang lever because many youngsters aren't strong 
enough to operate a top tang to open a gun- and the side lever does 
indeed open very easily. This gun has a 12-1/2-inch stock and is 
available in either 20 or .410 gauge. There's another addition to 
the Stevens line, the pump-action Model 77 in .410 (under $75), which 
you may or may not consider a kid's gun; many experienced hunters 
like this gauge and type of scattergun too. 

#SHOTGUNS, '61#

Although 
there were no startling developments in shotgun design this year, 
a number of new models and variations of existing models did hit 
the market. For example, a Browning trap version of the Superposed 
over/under, the Broadway (from $350 up, depending on grade), differs 
from standard models in that it is equipped with a full beavertail fore 
end, a cushion recoil pad and a barrel-wide ventilated rib for fast 
sighting.   The Colt line now includes a new scattergun, the Standard 
or Custom Pump Model (about $90 and $150, respectively) in 
12, 16 and 20.   Firearms International has introduced another 
import, this one from Finland. It's the Valmet (about $170), a 12-gauge 
over/under very much like the old Remington 32- which was 
so fine 
a gun that today a used one still brings high prices.   High 
Standard has also added two models to its line. The Supermatic Trophy 
(prices begin at less than $135 and depend on grade and optional 
features) is a 12-gauge auto. The Flite-King Trophy (beginning at 
just over $85) is a pump gun in 12 or 16. Either model is a very good 
dollar value.   Mossberg's latest contribution to the field is 
the Model 500 (from $73.50); this is an improved version of the old 
Model 200, a pump-action 12-gauge shotgun. See page 24 for a complete 
report on it. 

#HANDGUNS, '61#

Aside from the .22 Jet- which 
I coupled with the Deerstalker carbine as one of the year's two 
biggest developments- few significant innovations appeared among 
1961's handguns.

LIVERY STABLE- J& VERNON, PROP"& Coaching had declined 
considerably by 1905, but the sign was still there, near the old 
Wells Fargo building in San Francisco, creaking in the fog as it 
had for thirty years. John Vernon had had all the patronage he cared 
for- he had prospered, but he could not retire from horsedom. Coaching 
was in his blood. He had two interests in life: the pleasures 
of the table and driving. Twice a week he drove his tallyho over the 
Santa Cruz road, upland and through the redwood forest, with orchards 
below him at one hand, and glimpses of the Pacific at the other. The 
journey back he made along the coast road, traveling hell-for-leather, 
every lantern of the tallyho ablaze.   The southward route 
was the classic run in California, and the most fashionable. His patronage 
on this stretch was made up largely of San Franciscans- regulars, 
most of them, and trenchermen like himself. They did not complain 
at the inhuman hour of starting (seven in the morning), nor of the 
tariff, which was reasonable since it covered everything but the tobacco. 
Breakfast was at the Palace Hotel, luncheon was somewhere in the 
mountain forest, and dinner was either at Boulder Creek or at Santa 
Cruz.   Gazing too long at the scenery could be tiring, so 
halts were contrived between meals. Then the Chinese hostler, who rode 
with Vernon on the box, would break open a hamper and produce filets 
of smoked bass or sturgeon, sandwiches, pickled eggs, and a rum sangaree 
to be heated over a spirit lamp.   In spring and in autumn 
the run was made for a group of botanists which included an old friend 
of mine. They gathered roots, bulbs, odd ferns, leaves, and bits of 
resin from the rare Santa Lucia fir, which exists only on a forty-five 
mile strip on the westerly side of these mountains. In the Spanish 
days Franciscan monks roamed here to collect the resin for incense. 
It yields a fragrance as Orphic as that of the pastilles of Malabar. 
Vernon was serviceable on the botanical field trips, but he could 
arrange no schedule with the cooks, and he was glad when the trips dropped 
off, and the botanists began to motor out by themselves. 
My friend often breakfasted with Vernon on the morning of the regular 
tallyho run. This was an honor, like dining with a captain at his private 
table. Vernon's office adjoined the stable, and the walls were 
adorned with brightly colored lithographs, the folk art of the period. 
They advertised harness polish, liniments, Ball's Rubber Boots, 
Green River Whiskey, Hood's Sarsaparilla, patent medicines, 
shoe blacking, and chewing tobacco.   The hostler would have the 
table ready and a pot of coffee hissing on the stove; then a porter 
from Manning's Fish House would trot in with a tray on his head. 
It was draped with snowy napkins that kept hot a platter of oyster 
salt roast and a mound of corn fritters. Vernon was consummately fond 
of oysters, and Manning's had been famous for them since the Civil 
War. Oyster salt roast- oysters on the half shell, cooked on a bed 
of coarse salt that kept them hot when served- was a standby at Manning's. 
Its early morning patrons were coachmen, who fortified themselves 
for the day with that delicacy.   In the 1890's the 
Palace Hotel began serving an oyster dish named after its manager, John 
C& Kirkpatrick. This dish much resembles the oysters Rockefeller 
made famous by Antoine's in New Orleans, though the Palace 
chef announced it as a variant of Manning's roast oysters. (Gastronomes 
have long argued about which came first, the Palace's or Antoine's. 
Antoine's held as mandatory a splash of absinthe or Pernod 
on the parsley or spinach which was used for the underbedding. The 
Kirkpatrick version holds liqueur as optional.) Vernon, however, 
held out for plain oyster roast, and plenty of it, unadorned by herbs 
or any seasoning but salt, though he did fancy a bit of lemon. 
After the meal, he and his guests went out to inspect the rig; this 
was merely a ritual, to please all hands concerned. The tallyho had 
cost Vernon $2,300. A replica of two coaches made in England for the 
Belmont Club in the East, and matchless west of the Rockies, it 
was the despair of whips on the Santa Cruz run. One could shave in 
the reflection of its French-polished panels, and its axles were greased 
like those of roulette wheels. The horses were groomed to a high 
gloss; departing, they stepped solemnly with knees lifted to the jaw, 
for they had been trained to drag at important funerals.   But 
for the start of the Santa Cruz run, the whip fell. The clients boarded 
the tallyho at the Palace promptly at seven. They had been fed 
a hunting breakfast, so called because a kedgeree, the dish identified 
with fox hunting, was on the bill. There are many ways of making a 
kedgeree, every one of which is right. Here is an original kedgeree 
recipe from the Family Club's kitchen: 

#CLUB KEDGEREE#

Flake 
(for three) a cupful of cold boiled haddock, mix with a cupful of cooked 
rice, two minced hard-boiled eggs, some buttery white sauce done 
with cream, cayenne, pepper, salt, a pinch of curry, a tablespoonful of 
minced onion fried, and a bit of anchovy. Heat and serve hot on toast. 
##

The omelet named for Ernest Arbogast, the Palace's chef, 
was even more in demand. For decades it was the most popular dish 
served in the Ladies' Grill at breakfast, and it is one of the few 
old Palace dishes that still survive. Native California oysters, 
salty and piquant, as coppery as Delawares and not much larger than a 
five-cent piece, went into it. The original formula goes thus: 

#OMELET 
ARBOGAST#

Fry in butter a small minced onion, rub with a tablespoonful 
of flour, add half a cup of cream, six beaten eggs, pepper, 
celery salt, a teaspoonful of minced chives, a dash of cayenne, and a 
pinch of nutmeg. A jigger of dry Sherry follows, and as the mixture 
stiffens, in go a hundred of the little oysters.   Louis Sherry 
once stayed a fortnight at the Palace, and he was so pleased with omelet 
Arbogast that he introduced it at his restaurant in New York. 
J& Pierpont Morgan had come in his private train to San Francisco, 
to attend an Episcopal convention, and brought the restaurateur 
with him. As things happened, Morgan was installed in the Nob Hill 
residence of a magnate friend, whose kitchen swarmed with cooks of approved 
talent. Sherry remained in his hotel suite, where he amused himself 
as best he could. Twice he left everything to his entourage, and 
fled to make the Santa Cruz tour under Vernon's guidance.

In the grand court of the Palace, notable for its tiers of Moorish 
galleries that looked down on the maelstrom of vehicles below, Vernon's 
station was at the entrance. It was a post of honor, held inviolate 
for him; he had the primacy among the coachmen. Of majestic build, 
rubicund and slash-mouthed, he resembled the late General Winfield 
Scott, who was said to be the most imposing general of his century, 
if not of all centuries. Vernon wore a gray tall hat, a gardenia, 
and maroon Wellington boots that glistened like currant jelly.

Promptly at seven he would clatter out of the court with twelve in 
the tallyho. He had style: he held his reins in a loose bunch at the 
third button of his checked Epsom surtout, and when the horses leaned 
at a curve, as if bent by the force of a gale, he leaned with them. 
They cantered down the peninsula, not slackening until the coach reached 
Woodside where the Santa Cruz uplands begin.   The road 
maps of the region have changed since 1905; inns have burned down, moved 
elsewhere, or taken other names. Once on the road (and especially 
if the passengers were all regulars and masculine), the schedule meant 
nothing. An agreeable ease suffused Vernon and the passengers of 
the tallyho, from which there issued clouds of smoke. Vernon would tilt 
his hat over one ear as he lounged with his feet on the dashboard, 
indulging in a huge cigar. The horses moved at a clump; they were no 
more on parade than was their driver; one fork of the road was as 
good as another. The Santa Cruz mountains sprawl over three counties, 
and the roads twist through sky-tapping redwoods down whose furrowed 
columns ripple streams of rain, even when heat bakes the Santa Clara 
valley below at the left. The water splashes into shoulder-high tracts 
of fernery. You arrive there in seersucker, and feel you were half-witted 
not to bring a mackintosh.   Vernon kept an account book 
with a list of all the establishments that he thought worthy of patronage. 
A number of them must have fallen into disfavor; they were 
struck out with remarks in red ink, denouncing both the cooks and the 
management. He was copious in his praise of those that served food that 
was good to eat. The horses seemed to know these by instinct, he used 
to say: such places invariably had stables with superior feed bins.

There was Wright's, for one, lost amongst trees, its wide 
verandas strewn with rockers. Many of its sojourners were devoted 
to seclusion and quiet, and lived there to the end of their days. It 
was 
the haunt of writer Ambrose Bierce, who admired its redwoods. Acorns 
from the great oaks fed the small black pigs (akin to Berkshires), 
whose "carcass sweepstakes" were renowned. Their ham butts, cured 
in oak-log smoke, were also esteemed when roasted or boiled, and served 
with this original sauce: 

#WRIGHT'S DEVIL SAUCE#

Put into 
a saucepan a cupful of the baked ham gravy, or of the boiled ham liquor, 
with a half stick of butter, three teaspoonfuls of made mustard, 
and two mashed garlic cloves. Contribute also an onion, a peeled tomato 
and two pickled gherkins, and a mashed lime. After this has simmered 
an hour, add two tablespoons each of Worcestershire, catsup, and 
chutney, two pickled walnuts, and a pint of Sherry. Then simmer fifteen 
minutes longer. ##

Every winter a kegful of this sauce was made 
and placed at the end of a row of four other kegs in the cellar, so 
that when its turn came, it was properly mellowed.   Vineyards 
and orchards also grew around Wright's, and deer were rather a nuisance; 
they leaped six-foot fences with the agility of panthers. But 
no one complained when they wound up, regardless of season, in venison 
pies. No one complained of the white wine either: at this altitude 
of two thousand feet, grapes acquire a dryness and the tang of gunflint. 
(The Almaden vineyards have now climbed to this height.) Apple 
trees grew there also. Though creeks in the Santa Cruz mountains 
flow brimful the year round and it is forever spring, the apples that 
grow there have a wintry crackle.   Dwellers thereabouts preferred 
to get their apple pies at the local bakery, which had a brick oven 
fired with redwood billets. The merit of the pie, Vernon believed, 
was due more to its making than to the waning heat of the oven. The recipe, 
which he got from the baker, and wrote down in his ledger, is basically 
this: 

#WRIGHT'S APPLE PIE#

Peel, core, and slice across 
enough apples to make a dome in the pie tin, and set aside. In a 
saucepan put sufficient water to cover them, an equal amount of sugar, 
a sliced lemon, a tablespoonful of apricot preserve or jam, a pinch each 
of clove and nutmeg, and a large bay leaf. Let this boil gently for 
twenty minutes, then strain. Poach the apples in this syrup for twelve 
minutes, drain them, and cool.   Set the apples in the pastry-lined 
tin, spread over them three tablespoonfuls of softened butter, 
with as much brown sugar, a sprinkling of nutmeg, and a fresh bay leaf, 
then lay on a cover of pastry, and gild it with beaten yolk of egg.

THOSE WHO have never traveled the width and length of this 
land cannot conceive, on the basis of textbook description alone, the 
overwhelming space and variety of this country held together under one 
government. The miracle of democratic America comes home to one most 
strongly only when one has seen the endless Great Plains of the 
Midwest; the sky-reaching peaks of the Northwest mountains; the 
smoke-filled, art-filled, drama-filled life of the great cities of the 
East; the lush and historic charm of the South. Now, to add to the 
already unbelievable extremes found in one nation, we have the two 
new states of Hawaii and Alaska.   To hope to cover just one 
region of this land and to enjoy all of its sights and events and, of 
course, to bring back pictures of your experiences, requires advance planning. 
For this reason, <U&S& Camera> has prepared this special 
U&S&A& vacation feature. We divided the country into five 
regions plus Hawaii and Alaska and in each is included a general 
description of the area plus specific recommendations of places and events 
to cover. Any special photographic requirements are also given.

Use this section to plan now to make the most of your vacation 
in photogenic America. 

#THE NORTHEAST#

BIRTHPLACE of the 
nation, the Northeast offers historic battlefields; lovely old villages 
and a rugged seashore among its many worthwhile sights. The rolling 
farms of Maryland, the peerless metropolis of New York City, 
the verdant mountains of Vermont can all be included in your Northeast 
vacation.   By automobile from New York, for example, you can 
take a one or two-day tour to Annapolis, Maryland to see the colonial 
homes and the U&S& Naval Academy (where you can shoot the 
dress parade on Wednesdays); to Washington, D&C&, for an eye-filling 
tour of the city; or to Lancaster, Pa&, the center of 
the Pennsylvania Dutch country; Philadelphia with its historic buildings 
and nearby Valley Forge; to West Point, N&Y&, the 
famous military academy in a beautiful setting on the Hudson River.

New England deserves as much of your vacation time as you can 
afford with such areas as Cape Cod providing wonderful beaches, artists' 
colonies and quaint townships. From here you can easily include 
a side trip to the old whaling port of Nantucket, Massachusetts, 
which looks just as it must have two centuries ago.   At Sturbridge 
Village, Massachusetts, you'll find a completely-restored New 
England town. North to Acadia National Park, Maine, with views 
of a rockbound coast and dark, magnificent forests.   One of the 
most exciting ways to end a Northeast vacation would be with a week 
in New York City. Return through New England, stopping for a visit 
to Lake Champlain where you can take a boat ride and go to Ethan 
Allen Park. There you'll witness a view which includes the Adirondack 
Mts& and the Winooski River.   Now you're ready for 
a whirlwind sightseeing tour of America's most exciting city. The 
skyline, the bridges, Broadway, and the Staten Island ferry are 
only a few of the spots to put on your "must" list for New York 
City. 

#PHOTOGRAPHING IN THE NORTHEAST#

Some tips for shooting in 
Northeastern locales: In New York City don't miss coverage 
of the United Nations. These striking, modernistic buildings on the 
East River are open to the public and every weekday guided tours are 
available. Pictures can be taken in the public areas and when on tours. 
However, the use of tripods is not allowed. Photos of Conference 
Rooms and the General Assembly Hall can be made when these rooms 
are not being used for meetings. Flash is allowed, subject to above 
restrictions.   Around New England, you'll no doubt want a 
color shot of one of the picturesque lighthouses. Be careful here not 
to overexpose this subject since they are extremely bright and 
light-reflecting. 
In color, 1/50th of a second between **f and **f will do for 
bright, frontal sunlight. 

#THE SOUTH#

THE SOUTHERN United 
States, extending from Florida in the east to Texas in the west, 
still maintains its unique flavor of gracious living and historical elegance. 
It encompasses in its expanse areas where the natural beauty 
encourages a vacation of quiet contemplation, on the one hand, to places 
where entertainment and spectacles of all sorts have been provided 
for the tourist with camera.   Of special interest this anniversary 
year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields 
where, likely as not, you'll catch some memorial re-enactments. 
Among the locales to visit are Shiloh, Tennessee; Lookout Mountain, 
Tennessee; Vicksburg, Mississippi; Richmond, Virginia; 
Petersburg, Virginia, and Fredericksburg, Virginia.   Florida 
provides tropical scenes unequalled in the United States. At 
Cypress Gardens special bleachers are set up for photographers at water-ski 
shows and lovely models pose for pictures in garden settings. 
Silver Springs features glass-bottom boat rides and in Everglades National 
Park there are opportunities to photograph rare wildlife. Miami 
Beach and surroundings feature fabulous "hotel row", palm-studded 
beaches plus the Miami Seaquarium and Parrot Jungle. 
One of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of New 
Orleans. The famous old French and Spanish buildings with their 
elaborate wrought iron balconies and the narrow streets of the Latin 
Quarter present an Old World scene.   For restoration of early 
American life the places to visit are Williamsburg, Jamestown and 
Yorktown, Virginia. Another Virginia sight and a photographic adventure 
are the Luray Caverns, lit by photofloodlights.   The 
great state of Texas offers metropolitan attractions such as the Dallas 
Fair Park with its art and natural history museums. In contrast 
are the vast open stretches of ranch country and oil wells. In San 
Antonio visit the famous Alamo and photograph 18th Century Spanish 
buildings and churches.   The Great Smoky Mountains is another 
area of the South well worth a visit. Along the 127-mile route through 
Great Smoky Mountains National Park you can photograph the 
breath-taking peaks, gorges and valleys which come into view at every 
turn. Gatlinburg, Tennessee, is the center of this area. Another scenic 
spot in Tennessee is Chattanooga where the Rock City Gardens 
are not to be missed.   Beautiful homes and gardens are trademarks 
of the South and cities particularly noted for them are Charleston, 
S&C&, Natchez, Miss&, and Savannah, Ga&. At Charlottesville, 
Va&, shoot Monticello and the beautiful buildings of the 
University. 

#PICTURING THE SOUTH#

Foliage is the outstanding photo 
subject in many of the Southern locales mentioned above and some 
specific tips on how and where to shoot it are in order. For example, 
the Chamber of Commerce of Gatlinburg, Tennessee, sponsors special 
camera tours into the Great Smoky Mountains to get pictures of the 
profusion of wild flowers flourishing in these wooded regions.

Exposure problems may occur in these forest areas where uneven lighting 
results from shafts of sunlight filtering through the overhead branches. 
Best solution is to find an area that is predominantly sunlight 
or shade. In any instance, you should determine the exposure according 
to the type of light which falls on most of the subject area.

Try some closeups on Southern blossoms to provide a welcome contrast 
with the many long-view scenics you'll be making.   For 
shooting the interiors of the famous ante-bellum Southern mansions make 
sure your equipment includes a tripod. Enough daylight is usually 
available from the windows, but if you have synchronized flash- use 
it.   For some unusual photographic subjects, if your vacation takes 
you nearby, try these events: the 600-mile auto race in Charlotte, 
N& C&, on May 27; the Florida Folk Festival, White Springs, 
May 5-7; Singing on the Mountain in Linville, North Carolina, 
on June 25. Peak action photography is your goal at Miami's 
Seaquarium and the Cypress Gardens waterskiing events. 

#THE 
MIDWEST#

A PLEASANT start to your midwestern vacation is a few 
days spent in cosmopolitan Chicago. Lake Michigan offers swimming 
and pictures which combine cityscapes with beaches. A visit to Chicago's 
museums and a stroll around broad Michigan Avenue will unfold 
many photogenic subjects to the alert photographer.   Wisconsin 
Dells, where fantastically scenic rocks carved by the Wisconsin River 
are overgrown with fern and other foliage, rates a stopover when 
traveling from Chicago.   The farmlands forming the heart of America 
stretch out across the Midwest from Chicago. In North Dakota 
the strangely beautiful Badlands will challenge you to translate its 
wonder on to film. While here, visit Theodore Roosevelt National 
Park for its spectacular scenery.   Another spot with an image-provoking 
name is the Black Hills where you can visit the old frontier 
mining town of Deadwood. The Black Hills Passion Play is produced 
every summer and is a pageant worth seeing and shooting. 
Of course, while in this vicinity you won't want to miss a visit to 
Mount Rushmore National Memorial where on the side of a mountain 
are the famous sculptures of Presidents Washington, Lincoln, Jefferson 
and Theodore Roosevelt.   In Missouri (which we are including 
in our general Midwest region) you can glance into Mark Twain's 
birthplace at Hannibal, see the landmarks of his life and writings 
and visualize where Huck Finn hatched his boyish mischief.

Similarly in Illinois there is Lincoln country to be seen- his 
tomb and other landmarks.   Minnesota, fabled land of waters, is 
in itself, ideal vacationland, 
having within its borders 10,000 lakes! 
Itasca State Park, where the Mississippi River begins, is one 
of the outstanding tourist spots in Minnesota.   Mementoes of the 
Old West recall the days of Wyatt Earp in Dodge City, Nebraska, 
where present-day cowboys add a colorful human interest note to your 
vacation shooting.   Of current interest is Abilene, Kansas, 
the birthplace of ex-President Eisenhower. There's a museum here 
and also Old Abilene Town, a reconstruction of the cattle boomtown 
of the 70's and 80's.   For a resort area, Mackinack Island, 
Michigan, is the place to visit. It truly relives another age for 
the inhabitants use carriages rather than autos and old British and 
French forts are left intact for tourists to visit and record. 

#PICTURES 
OF THE MIDWEST#

Night scenes will add an exciting touch to 
your vacation travelogue and what better place to take them then along 
Chicago's Lake Shore Drive? Just after sunset is a good time 
to record the city lights in color since you get a "fill-in" light 
from the sky.   Another memo for sightseers: bring your camera 
along to museums. Photos of historic dioramas of the area you visit 
will add depth and background to your vacation photo story. Again, 
be sure your tripod is handy for those sometimes-necessary time exposures.

Special events and their dates which will make interesting 
shooting in the Midwest area, include the following:   A re-enactment 
of the Battle of Lexington, May 18th at Lexington, Missouri; 
the world-renowned 500-mile auto race at Indianapolis, Indiana, 
plus a festival from May 27-30; "Song of Hiawatha", in 
Elgin, Illinois, from June 20 to 24th. Michigan offers the lovely 
Tulip Festival in Holland, Michigan, May 12-14; the ~USGA 
Open in Birmingham from June 15-17; and the International Freedom 
Festival in Detroit, June 29-July 4.   For early vacationers 
there's the fun-filled Fishing Derby in Hot Springs, Arkansas, 
April 19-23, and the Arkansas Band Festival in Hot Springs, 
April 20-22. 

#THE WEST#

A WESTERN VACATION is practically 
synonymous with a visit to at least one of the magnificent national parks 
in this area. A tour of several of them is possible in a two-week 
vacation while a stay at just one of these natural beauty spots can 
be of equal reward.   In California is located one of the most 
popular of the national parks- Yosemite. Among its most spectacular 
features are its falls, the highest being Upper Yosemite which drops 
2,425 feet. The Sequoia Grove presents another unique aspect of 
Yosemite, for these ancient giant trees are a sight never to be forgotten.

In the Utah area are Zion National Park and Bryce Canyon 
National Park. Fantastic colors are to be seen in the fanciful 
formations of eroded rock which loom out of the semiarid country in 
both parks.   Colorado's Grand Canyon, probably the most famous 
landmark of the United States, can be the highpoint of your Western 
vacation.

BUILT UPON seven hills, Istanbul, like Rome, is one of 
the most ancient cities in the world, filled with splendor and contrast. 
It is an exotic place, so different from the ordinary that the casual 
tourist is likely to see at first only the contrast and the ugliness 
of narrow streets lined with haphazard houses. At the moment, many 
of these are being pulled down. Whole blocks are disappearing and more 
are scheduled to vanish to make room for wide boulevards that will 
show off its treasures to better advantage- the great domes and graceful 
spires of its mosques, the panorama of the Bosphorus and the Golden 
Horn. Even when they are finished, however, the contrast will 
remain, for Istanbul is the only city in the world that is built upon 
two continents. For almost 3,000 years Europe and Asia have rubbed 
shoulders in its streets.   Founded in the Ninth Century B&C& 
it was called Byzantium 200 years later when Byzas, ruler of 
the Megarians, expanded the settlement and named it after himself. About 
a thousand years after that, when the Roman Empire was divided, 
it became capital of the Eastern section. On May 11, 330 A&D&, 
its name was changed again, this time to Constantinople after its 
emperor, Constantine. In 1453 when the last vestige of ancient Roman 
power fell to the Turks, the city officially shifted religions- 
although the Patriarch, or Pope, of the Orthodox Church continued 
to live there, and still does- and became the capital of the Ottoman 
Empire. When <that> was broken up after the First World War, 
its name was changed once more. Rich in Christian and Moslem art, 
Istanbul is today a fascinating museum of East and West that 
recently 
became a seaside resort as well with the development of new beaches on 
the Bosphorus and the Sea of Marmara only a short distance from the 
center of town. Easy to get to, and becoming more popular every year, 
it is only fourteen hours from New York by Pan American World 
Airways jet, four hours from Rome. 

#START OF TOUR#

Most of the 
sights lie in the old section across the Golden Horn from the modern 
hotels. I started my tour of them at the Turkish Government Tourist 
Office, next to Pan American's office on the left as you enter 
the driveway that leads to the Hilton Hotel. From there I turned 
left along Cumhuriyet Cadesi past more hotels and a park on the left, 
Republic Gardens, and came in a few moments to Taksim Square, one 
of the hubs of the city, with the Monument of the Republic, erected 
in 1928, in its center.   Directly across from the Gardens I 
found a bus stop sign for ~T 4 and rode it down to the Bosphorus, 
with the sports center on my left just before I reached the water and 
the entrance to Dolmabahce Palace immediately after that. There 
the bus turned right along the Bosphorus, past ocean liners at anchor, 
to Galata Bridge over the entrance to the Golden Horn, a brown sweep 
of water that empties into the Bosphorus. Across the bridge on 
the left I saw St& Sophia with its sturdy brown minarets and to the 
right of them the slenderer spires of the Blue Mosque.   On 
the other side of the Golden Horn I rode through Eminonu Square, 
with Yeni Cami, or the New Mosque, which dates from the Seventeenth 
Century, just across from the entrance to the bridge. Passing it, 
the bus climbed a hill, with the covered spice bazaar on the right and 
Pandelli's, a famous and excellent restaurant, above it. At the 
top of the hill the buildings on the left gave way to a park. I got 
off there, crossed the street, walked ahead with St& Sophia on my 
left, the Blue Mosque on my right, and in a moment came to the entrance 
of St& Sophia.   Erected on the site of pagan temples and 
three previous St& Sophias, the first of which was begun by Constantine, 
this fourth church was started by Justinian in 532 and completed 
twenty years later. On his first trip to the finished structure 
he boasted that he had built a temple grander than Solomon's in Jerusalem. 
A few years later the dome fell in. Nevertheless, it remained 
one of the most splendid churches of the Eastern Empire, where 
the Byzantine Emperors were crowned. After the Turks conquered the 
city in 1453 they converted it to a mosque, adding the stubby minarets. 
In the second half of the Sixteenth Century, Sinan, the great architect 
who is the Michelangelo of the East, designed the massive buttresses 
that now help support the dome. With the birth of the Turkish 
Republic after the First World War, St& Sophia became a museum, 
and the ancient mosaics, which were plastered over by the Moslems, 
whose religion forbids pictures in holy places, have been restored.

Inside over the first door I saw one of these, which shows 
Constantine offering the city to the Virgin Mary and Justinian offering 
the temple. On the columns around the immense dome are round plaques 
with Arabic writing. The eight green columns, I learned, came 
from the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, the others, red, from the Temple 
of the Sun at Heliopolis.   Beneath the dome I saw the 
spot where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned, a bit of floor protected 
now by a wooden fence. Behind this is a minber or Moslem pulpit 
and near it a raised platform with golden grillwork, where the emperors 
and, after them, the sultans, sat. Directly opposite is the emperor's 
door, through which they entered the building.   Outside 
St& Sophia I walked through the flower garden in front of it, with 
the Blue Mosque ahead on my left. Across the street on my right I 
saw the Hippodrome, now a park. It was laid out in 196 for chariot 
races and other public games. Statues and other monuments that stood 
there were stolen, mostly by the waves of Crusaders.   At 
the beginning of the Hippodrome I saw the Kaiser's Fountain, an 
ugly octagonal building with a glass dome, built in 1895 by the German 
Emperor, and on my left, directly across from it, the tomb of Sultan 
Ahmet, who constructed the Blue Mosque, more properly known by 
his name.   Just before coming to the mosque entrance I crossed 
the street, entered the Hippodrome, and walked ahead to the Obelisk 
of Theodosius, originally erected in Heliopolis in Egypt about 1,600 
B&C& by Thutmose, who also built those now in New York, 
London and Rome at the Lateran. This one was set up here in 390 A&D& 
on a pedestal, the faces of which are carved with statues of 
the emperor and his family watching games in the Hippodrome, done so 
realistically that the obelisk itself is included in them.   Beyond 
it I noted a small green column, about twelve feet below the present 
ground level- the Serpentine Column, three entwined serpents, 
which once stood at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi, Greece. Near 
the end of the Hippodrome I came upon the Built Column, a truncated 
obelisk of blocks, all that remains of a monument that once rivalled 
the Colossus of Rhodes. 

#MAGNIFICENT MOSQUE#

Retracing my steps 
to the Mosque of Sultan Ahmet, only one with six minarets, I entered 
the courtyard, with a gallery supported by pointed arches running 
around it and a fountain in the middle. One of the most beautiful 
buildings in Istanbul, it was constructed in the early years of the Seventeenth 
Century, with a huge central dome, two half domes that seem 
to cascade down from it, and smaller full domes around the gallery. 
The round minarets, tall and graceful, rise from rectangular bases and 
have three platforms from which the muezzin can chant his call to prayer. 
Inside, the walls are covered with blue and white tile, the floor 
with red and cream carpets.   Back at the Kaiser's Fountain, 
I walked left to the streetcar stop and rode up the hill- any 
car will do- past the Column of Constantine, also known as the Burnt 
Column, at the top on my right. It stands in the middle of what 
was once the Forum of Constantine, who brought it from Rome.

I stayed on the car for a few minutes until, turning right, it entered 
a huge square, Bayezit, with the Bayezit Mosque on the right and 
the gate to the university just beyond it. There I got off, crossed 
the square, and on the side directly opposite the gate found a good 
restaurant, hard to come by in this part of the city. Called the Marmara 
Gazinosu, it is on the third floor, with signs pointing the way 
there, and has a terrace overlooking the Sea of Marmara. After lunch, 
in the arcade on my left just before reaching the street I found a 
pastry shop that sells some of the best baklava- a sweet, flaky cake- 
in Istanbul. It's a great favorite of the university students, 
and I joined them there for dessert.   Taking the streetcar back 
to Kaiser's Fountain, I walked ahead, then left down the street 
opposite St& Sophia and just beyond the corner came to a small, 
one-story building with a red-tile roof, which is the entrance to the 
Sunken Palace. Actually an underground cistern, its roof supported 
by rows and rows of pillars, it was built by Justinian in the Sixth 
Century to supply the palace with water. There is still water in it. 
I found it fairly depressing and emerged almost immediately. 
Outside I walked past the entrance to St& Sophia, turned left at 
the end of it, and continued toward a gate in the wall ahead. Just 
before reaching it I came to a grey and brown stone building that looks 
somewhat like an Oriental pagoda, with Arabic lettering in gold and 
colored tile decorations- the Fountain of Sultan Ahmet.

Going through the Imperial Gate in the wall, I entered the grounds 
of Topkapi Palace, home of the Sultans and nerve center of the vast 
Ottoman Empire, and walked along a road toward another gate in the 
distance, past the Church of St& Irene, completed by Constantine 
in 330 A&D& on my left, and then, just outside the second 
gate, I saw a spring with a tap in the wall on my right- the Executioner's 
Spring, where he washed his hands and his sword after beheading 
his victims.   Passing through the gate, with towers on either 
side once used as prisons, I entered a huge square surrounded by 
buildings, and on the wall to my right found a general plan of the grounds, 
with explanations in English for each building. There are a 
good many of them. At one time about 10,000 people lived there.

Following arrowed signs, I veered right toward the former kitchens, 
complete with chimneys, which now house one of the world's greatest 
collections of Chinese porcelain and a fabulous array of silver dinner 
services. Next to it is a copper section, with cooking utensils 
and a figure of the chief cook in an elaborate, floor-length robe.

In the court once more, I went right toward the Reception House, 
a long one-story building with a deep portico. Going through a door 
into another small court, I had the Throne Room directly in front. 
I walked to the right around it to buildings containing illuminated 
manuscripts and came to the Treasury, which houses such things as coffee 
cups covered with diamonds, jewelled swords, rifles glittering with 
diamonds and huge divan-like thrones as large as small beds, on which 
the sultans sat cross-legged. They are made of gold and covered with 
emeralds, pearls and other jewels.   Taking the path behind 
the Throne Room to the building directly beyond it, the Portrait Gallery, 
I went right at the end of it, through a garden to a small building 
at the back- a sitting room furnished with low blue divans, its 
floor covered with carpets, its ceiling painted with gold squares and 
floral designs.

<DO> start fires one or two hours ahead of time to obtain 
a 
lasting bed of glowing coals. Keep ashes from one barbecue to the next 
to sprinkle over coals if they are too hot, and to stop flames that 
arise from melting grease.   <Do> line barbecue fire bowl 
with 
heavy foil to reflect heat.   <Don't> forget to buy a plastic 
pastry brush for basting with sauces. Clean it meticulously in boiling 
water and detergent, rinse thoroughly.   <Do> build a wall 
of glowing coals six to eight inches in front of meat that is barbecued 
on an electric spit. Make use of the back of the barbecue or of the 
hood for heating vegetables, sauces and such.   <Don't> 
fail to shorten cooking time by the use of aluminum foil cut slightly 
larger than the surface of steaks and chops. Sear on both sides then 
cover meat loosely with heat reflecting foil for juiciest results.

<Do> avoid puncturing or cutting into meats to test them. If doubtful 
about a steak, boldly cut it in half. If necessary to replace 
both halves on grill, sear cuts and allot extra time. For roasts, insert 
meat thermometer diagonally so it does not rest on bone. Also make 
sure thermometer does not touch the revolving spit or hit the coals.

<Don't> practice a new recipe on guests. Have a test-run 
on the family first, to be sure timing and seasoning are right.

<Do> buy meat the day or the day before you intend to cook it. Keep 
it no longer than 36 hours before cooking, and keep it in the coldest 
(but non-freezing) compartment of the refrigerator.   <Don't> 
plan meals that are too complicated. Limit yourself to good meat 
and drink, with bread, salad, corn or potatoes as accessories. Keep 
the desserts simple; fruit does nicely.   <Do> whatever kitchen 
work, such as fixing a salad, preparing garlic bread, or making 
a marinade sauce, ahead of time. When you start the outdoor performance, 
you can stay outdoors without a dozen running trips into the kitchen. 
(This goes for getting a drink tray ready, and for having a big cooler 
full of ice on hand long before the party begins.) 
<Don't> 
think you have to start with the most expensive equipment in the 
world. The simplest grill (pan type) or inexpensive hibachi can make 
you a chef. You need tongs to handle meat; long forks for turning 
potatoes and corn; heavy foil on hand at all times. And lots of hot 
pads!   <Do> keep the grill high enough above the fire so that 
when fat from meat drips down and flares up, flames cannot reach the 
meat.   <Don't> forget to have a supply of Melamine plates, 
bowls, cups, saucers, and platters for outdoor use. Made of the world's 
toughest unbreakable plastic, Melamine dinnerware comes in almost 
400 different patterns and dozens of colors. There is even one 
set that has "barbecue" written on it.   <Do> without fancy 
tablecloths. It's cheaper to buy Wall-Tex and cover your outdoor 
table. Or buy half a dozen lengths of oilcloth and change patterns 
for different kinds of barbecues. Oilcloth only costs about 79~c a 
yard for the very best. Tougher than plastic, it wears well. 
<Don't> forget- when you take to the hills or the beach- that 
your cooler, which you might have used for wine- or beer-cooling on your 
terrace or back yard, is indispensable for carrying liquid refreshments. 
There are many varieties of coolers and they serve many purposes. 
With them, you can carry steaks and hamburgers at refrigerator temperatures, 
and also get your frozen food for stews and chowders, to the 
marina or picnic, in A-1 condition.   <Do> use paper napkins; 
lots of them. Except when you prepare "do it yourself" shish 
kebob or a lobster roast. Then you'll want terry cloth towels 
for mopping up.   <Don't> think barbecue cooking is just sometimes, 
or seasonal. It's year-round, and everywhere. In the winter, 
hibachi in the kitchen or grill over the logs of the fireplace. Even 
use your portable electric or gas grill in the winter, inside. Summertime 
supper, outside, is a natural. You'll find, once your technique 
is perfected, that you can cook on a boat with a simple Bernz-O-Matic.

<Do> buy all-purpose mugs or cups. Get copper or 
earthenware mugs that keep beer chilled or soup hot. Be sure to get 
a few more than you need. You will discover you keep the sauce for basting 
meat in one, use six for drinks, serve soup or coffee in another 
half-dozen- and need one more to mix the salad dressing.   <Don't> 
forget the joys of a meal on the road. If you travel over the 
vast U&S&A& you will, no doubt, discover that feeding is an 
expensive business. Decide in the beginning to put your barbecue equipment 
to work. You <can> take it with you **h a picnic bag, a 
grill, 
a cooler for soft drinks and beer, and for frozen convenience foods. Eat 
in a restaurant or motel mornings and evenings; or just evenings. 
Turn off at any one of the marked picnic areas (gasoline companies 
have touring service bureaus that issue booklets on national parks to 
tell you where you have barbecue facilities) and- with soft drinks 
cooled from morning loading up, hamburger, buns, an array of relishes, 
and fresh fruit- your lunch is 75% cheaper than at a restaurant, 
and 100% more fun. You need a little stove, a coffee pot and a stew 
pot; maybe a skillet, a basket of essentials like salt, pepper, plates, 
forks, knives and a can opener. As you pull out of your motel or 
national park home-for-the-night, visit a market and buy just what you 
need for the next meal. For 25~c load up the cooler with ice and 
keep cool pop in the car. 

#SIMPLE MEAT DISHES#

SPICE is a fact of 
life in the U&S&A&. You only have to think of franks and sausages 
to know what I mean. Go a step further and list all the wonderful 
barbecue basics- cervelat, salami, Vienna sausages, mettwurst, 
bratwurst, bockwurst, knackwurst, Bologna, pepperoni, blutwurst- and 
you have a long list of easy specialties. Threaded on a skewer with 
new boiled potatoes, a bit of green pepper, a fresh white mushroom- 
any one of these spiced meats makes a man a cook, and a meal a feast.

Sure, for the most of us, a frankfurter is the favorite. A 
story goes that a certain Herr Feuchtwanger of St& Louis, around 
1883 served his sausages (grilled) and mustard to his fancy customers. 
So that his customers should not soil their hands, Feuchtwanger issued 
white gloves. Discovery that the gloves frequently left with the 
customers made the wise peddler of spiced sausage-meat come upon a compromise. 
He had a bakery make buns sized to fit his franks. Years later, 
franks-in-buns were accepted as the "first to go" at the New 
York Polo Grounds.   The nations's number one picnic treat 
is the skinless frankfurter- toasted over a bonfire on the beach or, 
more sedately, charcoal broiled on a portable grill. Either way it's 
hard to beat in flavor as well as ease of preparation. To make the 
picnic frank come close to perfection, remember these tips:

-Score each frankfurter in four or five places about a third of 
the way through. This permits the juices to permeate the meat during 
cooking.   -Relishes are as vital to the success of the frank 
as are buns. Bring along the conventional ones- catsup, pickle relish, 
mustard, mayonnaise- plus a few extras, such as tangy barbecue 
sauce, chive cream cheese, or horse-radish for the brave ones in the crowd.

-Using a portable grill permits you to toast the buns, 
too. Watch closely while browning them, as it doesn't take long.

-An unusual flavor can be achieved by marinating the franks 
in French dressing or a mixture of honey, lemon juice and brown sugar 
prior to the picnic. Broil or toast as usual.   Contrary to 
popular opinion, "a la mode" doesn't mean "with ice cream"- 
it just means, in the latest style. Here are a couple of the latest, 
highly styled ways to fix skinless franks in your own back yard! 
You'll 
have the neighbor's eyes popping as well as their mouths watering! 

_JIFFY BARBECUES_ {1 cup chili sauce 1/3 cup water 1 tablespoon 
barbecue sauce 2 teaspoons prepared mustard 1/2 pound chipped, 
spiced ham 6 sandwich buns, heated}   Combine first 4 ingredients 
in saucepan; heat thoroughly. Add ham; heat. Serve on buns. 
Makes 6 barbecues. _HOT HIBACHI FRANKS_ You'll never hear "sayonara", 
the Japanese word for goodbye, from your guests when you 
give a hibachi party. The fun of toasting their own sausages over the 
small Oriental charcoal burners and dipping them in tasty sauces 
will 
keep your group busy- try it and see! _CANNED COCKTAIL FRANKFURTERS_ 

_SWEET-SOUR SAUCE_ {1 large onion, chopped fine 2 tablespoons 
salad oil 1 8-oz& can crushed pineapple and 1/2 cup of the juice 
1/4 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons vinegar 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce} _PINEAPPLE CHUNKS_ _MUSTARD 
CREAM_ {2 tablespoons dry mustard Water 1/2 cup heavy 
cream, whipped Salt Paprika}   Spear canned cocktail franks 
with picks. Also spear pineapple chunks and place in separate bowl.

Make sauces ahead. Sweet-sour sauce can be kept warm over a second 
hibachi or chafing dish while charcoal in broiler is reaching glowing 
coal stage. Mustard cream, used as alternate dip for franks and 
pineapple tidbits, tastes best when served at room temperature. 
For sweet-sour sauce, cook onion in oil until soft. Add remaining ingredients 
and bring to a boil. Simmer about 10 minutes, and keep warm 
for serving.   To prepare mustard cream, blend mustard with enough 
water to make a thin paste. Fold into whipped cream and add a dash 
of salt and sprinkling of paprika. _TRIM-YOUR-OWN-FRANKS_ A back-yard 
picnic with grilled frankfurters and a selection of frankfurter 
trimmings is a fine way to entertain guests this summer. Be sure to 
have plenty of frankfurters and buns on hand. Some tasty frank toppings 
are chili con carne, Coney Island sauce and savory sauerkraut. Serve 
the chili and kraut hot with the franks.   Here are suggestions 
for the frankfurter trimmings: _1._ Chili con carne: use 
canned chili con carne. _2._ Coney Island sauce: finely chop 
several onions and add enough catsup to moisten well; add prepared 
mustard to suit taste. _3._ Savory sauerkraut: add several tablespoons 
of brown sugar to a can of sauerkraut. Add a few caraway seeds, 
too, if you'd like. _BARBECUED FRANKFURTERS_ {1/2 cup minced 
celery 1/4 cup minced onion 1/2 cup tomato ketchup 1/2 cup water 1/4 
cup vinegar 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 tablespoon prepared mustard 1/2 teaspoon salt 8 frankfurters}

Combine first 9 ingredients in skillet. Simmer 15 minutes. Prick 
frankfurters with fork; place in sauce. Cover; simmer 15 minutes, 
stirring occasionally, until sauce is of desired consistency. Serve 
in frankfurter buns or as a meat dish. Makes 8 sandwiches or 4 
servings. _PRETEND HAM_ Make criss-cross gashes on one side of skinless 
frankfurters. Stick 4 or 5 cloves in each frank, ham fashion. 
Make a paste of brown sugar and mustard and spread lightly over scored 
surface. If desired, sprinkle with 1 teaspoon drained crushed pineapple. 
Place on rectangle of foil and pinch edges together tightly. Roast 
on grill over coals 15-20 minutes. _FRANKFURTER TWISTS_ Blend 
2 cups biscuit mix with 2/3 cup milk to make a soft dough. Knead on 
lightly floured board and roll out to form a **f-inch rectangle. Spread 
dough with a mixture of 3 tablespoons chili sauce, 1 teaspoon horse-radish 
and 2 teaspoons mustard. Cut dough carefully into 12 strips, 
about 3/4 inch by a foot long. Twist one strip diagonally around each 
skinless frankfurter, pinching dough at ends to seal it. Brush frankfurter 
twists with about 1/2 cup melted butter and toast slowly over 
glowing coals until dough is golden brown. Serves 12. _HAMBURGER PATTIES 
WITH NUTS_ {1 pound ground beef 2 teaspoons grated onion Dash 
of pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup chopped walnuts 1/4 cup ice cold 
bourbon}   Combine ingredients; form into patties and barbecue 
5 minutes on each side. 

_NOTE:_ Directions are written for those who have had previous 
experience in making pottery. Instructions for preparing clay, drying, 
glazing and firing are not given. 

#EQUIPMENT:#

Basic pottery 
studio equipment. Wooden butter molds and cookie presses. 

#MATERIALS:# 

Ceramic modeling clay: red, white or buff. Stoneware clay 
for tiles. Glazes, one-stroke ceramic colors, stains, cones as indicated 
in the individual instructions. 

#GENERAL DIRECTIONS:#

Use 
well-wedged clay, 
free of air bubbles and pliable enough to bend without 
cracking. Clean wooden molds and presses thoroughly; they must be 
free of oil, wax and dust. _PRESSING DESIGNS:_ The size of wooden 
mold will determine the amount of clay needed. Roll clay to thickness 
indicated in individual instructions. Whenever possible, use the 
wooden mold as a pattern for cutting clay. When mold has more than one 
design cavity, make individual paper patterns. Place mold or paper 
pattern on rolled clay and cut clay by holding knife in vertical position 
(cut more pieces than required for project to make allowance for 
defects; experiment with defects for decoration techniques of glazes 
and colors). Place the cut clay piece loosely over the carved cavity 
design side of wooden mold. To obtain clear impression of mold, press 
clay gently but firmly into mold cavity, starting at center and working 
to outer edges. Trim excess clay away from outer edges. Check thickness 
of clay and build up thin areas by moistening surface with a little 
water and adding small pieces of clay. Be sure to press the additional 
clay firmly into place without locking in air bubbles. Allow 
project to stand for about five minutes (if wooden press mold is a good 
antique, do not leave clay in too long as the dampness may cause mold 
to crack).   To release clay from mold, place hands in a cupped 
position around project; gently lift the edge on far side, then continue 
to release edge completely around mold. Slight tapping on the 
underside of mold will help release the clay, but too much agitation will 
cause the clay to become soft and will interfere with removal of clay 
from mold. Place a piece of plaster wall board or plaster bat on 
clay and reverse bat, clay and mold in one action. This will prevent 
the clay from twisting or bending, causing warping when fired. Place 
project on table and carefully lift the mold off. Study surface of clay 
for defects or desired corrections. If clay is slightly out of shape, 
square straight sides with guide sticks or rulers pressed against 
opposite sides, or smooth round pieces with damp fingers. if the background 
of design is too smooth, or you wish to create a wood-grained effect, 
it may be added at this time with a dull tool such as the handle 
of a fine paintbrush. Make slight, smooth grooves rather than cuts 
for the texture (cuts could cause air pockets under the glaze creating 
pinholes or craters in the glaze during firing). Leave the clay on 
plaster board to dry slowly, covered lightly with a loose piece of plastic 
or cloth to prevent warping. 

#RECTANGULAR TILES#

(opposite page, 
right top): Stoneware clay was used. Clay was rolled to 1/4'' 
thickness. Back of clay scored or roughened for proper gripping 
surface. No bisque firing. glazed with two coats of Creek-Turn white 
stoneware glaze (no glaze on sides or bottom). Decorated on unfired 
glaze with one coat of one-stroke ceramic colors; raised details of 
designs were colored in shades of yellow-green, blue-green, brown and 
pink. Tiles were fired once to cone 05. 

#ROUND PLAQUE#

(opposite 
page, bottom): White clay was used, rolled to 1/4'' thickness. 
Bisque fired to cone 05. Stained with Jacquelyn's ceramic unfired 
stain, polished, following manufacturer's directions. Opaque cantaloupe 
and transparent wood brown were used. No further firing. 

#PAPERWEIGHT# 
(opposite page, top left): Red clay was used, rolled 
1/2'' 
thick. Mold was used as pattern and clay cut by holding knife 
at about 45` angle, to form an undercut, making base smaller than the 
pattern top. While clay is still pressed in mold, press three equally 
spaced holes 1/4'' deep, using pencil eraser, in bottom of clay 
to allow for proper drying and firing. Paperweight may be personalized 
on back while clay is leather hard. Bisque fired to cone 05. Unglazed. 

#JARS WITH LIDS# 
(opposite page, top left): Remove wooden 
design head from bowl of butter mold. Fill small hole in bowl with clay. 
Make paper patterns for sections of jar and lid (see Fig& 1, 
opposite page). Measurements 
for rectangular pattern piece ~A are obtained 
by measuring inside circumference and depth of butter mold bowl. 
Pattern for circular base piece ~B is diameter of ~A. Use wooden 
design head of mold for pattern ~C; pattern ~D for lid fits 
over top diameter of ~A. Pattern for inner lid piece ~E fits 
inside ~A. Jars are assembled in bowl of butter mold.   Use 
white or buff clay, rolled to 3/16'' thickness. Place patterns 
on rolled clay and cut around them with knife in vertical position. Place 
clay pieces on wall board.   To assemble jar, put paper pattern 
~B for base in bottom of mold and clay disk ~B on top. Line 
sides of mold with paper pattern ~A. Bevel and score ends of clay 
piece ~A so that they overlap about 1/2'' and make even thickness. 
Place clay piece ~A inside; use slip to join overlapped ends 
together. Join ~B to bottom of ~A, scoring and reinforcing with 
clay coil. Trim excess clay from around lip of mold and set aside 
while assembling lid.   To assemble lid, press clay piece ~C 
in cavity of wooden design head. Press clay into mold as instructed 
in General Directions. Score plain side of ~C and leave in mold. 
Score one side of disk ~D, join to ~C; score other side of ~D 
and one side of disk ~E and join as before. While assembled lid 
is still on design head, gently but firmly press it on plaster board. 
If design head has a 
deep cavity, clay lid will be quite thick at this 
point; press eraser of pencil gently 1/4'' deep into deep clay 
to allow vent for proper drying and firing. Check fit of lid on jar; 
if inner lid is too big, trim to fit, allowing room for thickness 
of glaze. Remove lid from head of mold. Remove jar from mold. Place 
jar on plaster board with lid in place to dry slowly. Bisque fire to 
cone 08 with lid on jar.   For an antique effect on jars, brush 
Creek-Turn brown toner on bisque ware and sponge it off. Glaze with 
two coats of clear or transparent matt glaze. The large jar was brushed 
with Creek-Turn green toner and sponged off. Glaze with two coats 
of matt glazes in turquoise with touches of blossom pink on lid. When 
dry they were fired to cone 06-05. 

#LITTLE FOLKS SET:#

(Made 
from modern wooden molds **f.) 
Roll white clay to 3/16'' thickness. 

_SALT AND PEPPER:_ Use mold to cut four side pieces. For 
top and bottom pieces, use short end of mold as measurement guide. Press 
the side pieces of clay into cavity of mold. Trim excess clay from 
rim 
of mold. Cut beveled edge on the long sides of clay at a 45` angle 
to miter corners. Score beveled edges and remove pieces from mold; 
place design-side up on plaster board. Make all four sides. Cut clay 
top and base pieces; place on plaster board. Allow all pieces to 
become leather hard before constructing shaker. _TO ASSEMBLE:_ 
Construct sides, bottom and top as for box, using slip on scored edges 
and coils of clay to reinforce seams. Join the four sides together 
first, then add the base; add top last. Use water on finger to smooth 
seams and edges. Turn shaker upside down. Recess base slightly to 
allow room for stopper. Cut hole in base for cork stopper. Add holes 
in top, forming "~S" for salt and "~P" for pepper. Set 
aside to dry thoroughly. _SUGAR AND CREAMER:_ Cut a strip of 
clay for sides long enough and wide enough for three impressions of mold 
design. Press clay into cavity of one mold three times; bevel overlapping 
ends for splice joint, score beveled edges. Form clay strip 
into a cylinder; use slip to join scored ends. Place cylinder on 
a disk of clay slightly larger than cylinder. Score bottom edge of cylinder 
and join to disk with slip. Trim away excess clay; reinforce 
seam with a coil of clay. This will form the sugar bowl. Make creamer 
the same.   Handle for creamer is a strip of clay 1/2'' wide 
and 3-1/2'' long. To add handle, place a wooden dowel against 
the inside wall of creamer. Score outside of container where handle 
ends will be joined. Bend 
handle; press scored handle ends firmly in 
place using dowel to reinforce container while pressing; use slip to 
join. To form spout, between two designs, dampen area slightly and 
gently push clay outward. Make lid for sugar bowl the same as jar lids, 
omitting design disk. Cut a 
notch in lid for spoon handle if desired. 
Set aside to dry with lid on sugar bowl. _VASES:_ Make same 
as salt and pepper shakers, leaving off top pieces. Vases may be made 
into candles by filling with melted wax and a wick. _NAPKIN HOLDER:_ 
Cut a piece of clay for base and two for sides each about **f (long 
enough for three impressions of mold). Press the two sides into 
cavity of one mold three times. Put cut pieces on plaster board to dry 
to firm leather-hard state. Score side edges of base; join sides 
and base with slip and reinforce with coil. A cardboard pattern cut to 
fit inside holder will help to prevent warping. Place pattern inside 
holder; use three strips of clay to hold in place (see Fig& 
2, page 71). Do not use wood as it will not shrink with the clay and 
would cause breakage.   Let all projects dry slowly for several 
days. Clean greenware. Bisque fire to cone 08. Inside of pieces 
was glazed with three coats of Creek-Turn bottle green antique glaze. 
Outside was finished with Creek-Turn brown toner brushed on and sponged 
off to give antique finish. Fired to cone 06-05. 

#CHANGING COLORS#


_TO CHANGE FROM ONE COLOR YARN TO ANOTHER:_ 
When changing from one color to another, whether working on right or 
wrong side, pick up the new strand from underneath dropped strand. Photograph 
shows the wrong side of work with light strand being picked 
up under dark strand in position to be purled. _TO MEASURE WORK:_ 
Spread article on flat surface to required width before measuring 
length at center. 

#MEASURING ARMHOLE#


_TO MEASURE ARMHOLE:_ 
Mark row on which first stitches 
have been bound off for armhole by drawing 
a contrasting colored thread through it. Place work on a flat surface 
and smooth out. Measure straight up from marked row. See illustration. 

_TO INSERT MARKERS:_ When directions read "~sl a 
marker on needle", put a small safety pin, paper clip, or commercial 
ring marker on needle. In working, always slip marker from one needle 
to another. To mark a row or stitch, tie contrasting thread around 
end 
of row or stitch to be marked. 

#BACKSTITCHING SEAM#


_TO SEW SEAMS 
WITH BACKSTITCH:_ Most seams are sewn with backstitch, especially 
on curved, slanted or loose edges. Pin right sides of pieces together, 
keeping edges even and matching rows or patterns. Thread matching 
yarn in tapestry needle. Run end of yarn through several stitches 
along edge to secure; backstitch pieces together close to edge. Do 
not draw yarn too tight. See illustration. _TO SEW IN SLEEVES:_ 
Place sleeve seam at center underarm and center of sleeve cap at shoulder 
seam. Ease in any extra fullness evenly around. Backstitch seam. 

#WEAVING SEAM#


_TO WEAVE SEAMS TOGETHER:_ Straight vertical 
edges, such as those at the back seam of a sock, can be woven together 
invisibly. Thread matching yarn in tapestry needle. Hold edges 
together, right side up.

HOTEI is 23 feet long with an 8-1/2-foot beam and every inch 
a family boat. Menfolk can ride in the forward cockpit where the 
helmsman has a clear view. Youngsters can sleep or amuse themselves 
safely in the large cabin which has 5-foot 11-inch headroom, bunks for 
three, galley and marine toilet. The gals can sun themselves in the 
roomy aft cockpit. All are well distributed, not crowded together near 
the stern. And with passenger weight shifted forward, Hotei levels 
off for speed under power of a Merc 800. The 80-~hp motor drives 
her at 25 ~mph with six aboard!   With only two aboard, Hotei 
does better than 27 
~mph- and she gives a comfortable ride at this 
speed even in a three-foot chop. She also banks into a turn like 
a fine runabout- not digging in on the outside to throw passengers all 
over the boat like many a small cabin cruiser. Nor is she a wet boat. 
We've been out in five-foot waves and stayed dry.

{A lot of 
thought} went into storage space construction. There's a large compartment 
in the forward cockpit for charts and other items. The cabin 
has several shelves for small items and storage under the bunks for 
water skiis, life jackets, etc&. 
The aft cockpit has a **f storage bin 
over six feet long that doubles as a seat. On each side of the motor 
well there's storage for battery, bumpers, line and spare props with 
six-gallon gas tanks below. The well itself is designed to take two 
Merc 800's or 500's if you wish and there's room for a 25-gallon 
long-cruise gas tank below it.   Needless to say, you can't 
build Hotei in a couple of weeks. Our building time was slightly 
over 400 hours- but the total cost for the hull with Fiberglas bottom, 
sink, head and hardware was under $800. A comparable manufactured 
boat would cost close to $3,000. Consider what you have to earn to be 
able to spend the $3,000 and your building time is well worth it. A 
Gator trailer, Model 565, is used to transport the boat to the waterways. 
This piece of equipment costs a little over $600 but it will save 
you that in mooring and hauling fees in a few years.   All framing 
in Hotei is one-inch mahogany which, in the dressed state you 
buy it, is about the 13/16-inch thickness specified in the drawings. Therefore, 
the lumber is bought in planks and ripped to size for battens, 
etc&, on a table saw. Besides flathead bronze screws, silicon bronze 
Stronghold nails (made by Independent Nail + Packing Co&, 
Bridgewater, Mass&) are used extensively in assembly and Weldwood 
resorcinal glue is used in all the joints.   {Construction} 
follows a thorough study of the drawings. Start by laying out the six 
frames and the transom on a level floor. Draw each outline in a different-color 
chalk, one on top of the other. In this way you will be 
able to detect any obvious mistakes.   The transom frame is made 
first with the joints lapped, glued and fastened with one-inch, No& 
12 Stronghold nails. After notching it for the keelson, chines and 
battens, the half-inch plywood transom is secured to it with glue 
and the same type 
nails. All frames are butted at the joints and 3/8-inch plywood gussets 
are glued and nailed on each side of each joint, again using the one-inch, 
No& 12 nails. The frames are notched only for the keelson 
and the chines. If notched for the battens, they would require more work, 
be weakened and limber holes would have to be bored so that bilge 
water could flow through. Nowhere in the boat do the frames come in 
contact with the plywood planking.   The jig is erected after the 
frames and transom are complete. This is an important step because 
any misalignment would cause progressively worse misalignment in the hull 
as you advance in construction. Be sure all members are parallel, 
vertical and level as required.   After the frames and transom 
are set up on the jig and temporarily braced, a piece of three-inch-wide 
mahogany (only widths will be given since the 13/16-inch thickness 
is used throughout) is butted between frames one and two below the line 
of the keelson. The frames are glued and screwed to this piece. The 
joints are also reinforced on each side with small blocks set in resin-saturated 
Fiberglas cloth and nailed. It is over this piece that the 
laminated stem and keelson are spliced.   The keelson, made of 
two three-inch widths, is next installed. The first piece is glued 
and screwed to the frames and transom and the piece butted between frames 
one and two. The second piece is in turn glued and screwed to the 
first. Note, however, that it is six inches shorter at the forward end. 
One-inch, No& 10 screws are used in both cases.   {A stem 
jig} is next cut to the proper shape and temporarily fastened to 
frame one. The stem is laminated from four pieces. Take two three-inch-wide 
pieces and rip them down the center of the thickness to make 
the four. Then spread a generous amount of glue on the four pieces and 
bend them into place on the jig. The first two pieces butt against 
the inner member of the keelson and are glued and screwed to the brace 
between the first two frames. The second two pieces lap over the inner 
member of the keelson and butt against the outer member. They're 
glued and screwed to the inner member of the keelson. A number of ~C 
clamps hold the pieces together on the jig until the glue sets.

All bottom battens are two inches wide. The side ones are a half-inch 
narrower. The battens are carefully fastened in place after some 
necessary fairing on all frames. Glue and 1-1/2-inch, No& 10 screws 
are used. Placement is important because the rear seat, bunks and 
front jump seats rest on or are fastened to many of the side battens. 
With the exception of two battens, all run to the stem where they 
are glued and screwed after careful beveling. The chines go in the same 
way except that they are made of two pieces of two-inch wood for strength 
and easier bending.   Fairing is always a tedious job but 
the work can be cut down considerably with a Skill planer and a simple 
jig. I clamped a 30-inch piece of aluminum to the base of the planer 
with a pair of Sure Grips. The aluminum, flush against the battens, 
acted as a fairing stick and enabled me to plane the chines and keelson 
to the proper bevels easily. If you don't own a planer and don't 
want to buy one, it's well worth renting.   {The planking} 
is five-ply, 3/8-inch-thick Weldwood Royal Marine plywood. This 
can be obtained in 42-inch widths 24 feet long. The 42-inch width 
leaves very little waste. Four pieces are used. Plank the sides first, 
using glue and one-inch, No& 12 Stronghold nails at all battens, 
the stem and the transom. Another person inside with a weight against 
each batten will help in the fastening. The best procedure is to 
have a few friends hold the planking in place while you mark it off. 
Then trim the excess. I used a Homemaster Routo-Jig made by Porter 
Cable for this job. It's good for cutting all the planking because 
it cuts with a bit-like blade at high ~rpm and does not chatter 
the plywood like a saber saw.   When cut, the planking is clamped 
in place for a final and careful trimming. Then it is marked on the 
inside where it comes in contact with the transom, frames, keelson and 
all the battens. It may then be pre-drilled for the fastenings. The 
next step is to remove it and spread glue where it has been marked at 
the contact points. Then it is replaced and fastened. The bottom planking 
is applied in the same manner.   After planking, the bottom 
gets a layer of Fiberglas. The spray rails are first glued on the 
outside and fastened from the inside with screws. Then the chines are 
rounded off and the bottom is rough-sanded in preparation. Since the 
sides are also covered up to the spray rails, they are also rough-sanded 
in that area. The cloth is laid on one half of the bottom at 
a time. A 50-inch width is used on each side and it laps the keel line 
by about three inches. Lay the cloth in place and trim it to size. 
Then remove it and give the whole bottom a coat of resin. When the resin 
has hardened, mix up another batch with a pigment added if you wish. 
I used bright red, mixing the pigment in thoroughly before adding 
the hardener. Using a cheap brush, coat one side of the bottom with 
the resin and then apply the cloth. When the cloth is smooth, apply 
another coat of resin, spreading it with a paint roller. Be sure it is 
well saturated and then allow it to harden.   When the whole bottom 
has hardened, use a disk sander to feather the edges of the cloth 
at the keel line and near the spray rail. Then lay a three-inch-wide 
strip of cloth along the keel line from the transom to the point of 
the stem. Before the resin has hardened, screw a one-inch mahogany keel 
strip along the centerline. This protects the bottom in beaching. 
Fiberglas materials are available from Glass Plastic Supply Co&, 
1605 W& Elizabeth ave&, Linden, N& J&. They will also 
supply literature on application.   {The hull} is now turned 
over (with the help of about seven friends) and placed in a level, well-braced 
position. I set it on the Gator trailer. I laid three layers 
of glass cloth on the inside of the stem, also installing a bow eye 
at this time. For added strength, I also fastened a small block on 
each side of every frame and batten joint. Again, these blocks were 
set in resin-saturated glass cloth and nailed.   After trimming 
off the excess on the frames and transom which was used to fasten them 
to the jig at a working height, the top of the side planking is installed. 
This is made up of scraps left over from the sides and bottom. 
These flaring parts really help to keep the boat dry. When they're 
on, the top edges are planed even with the sheer batten.   The 
sides of the motor well run from the bottom battens to the top and from 
frame six to the transom, forming a real strong transom brace. Note 
another piece of wood six inches wide is fastened to the transom between 
these pieces.   The decking is quarter-inch mahogany marine 
plywood. All the flooring and the storage bin is half-inch exterior 
fir plywood. Most floor battens are glued and screwed to the flooring. 
The exception is where the flooring butts. These battens are glued 
and screwed to the frames.   With all deck battens in place, the 
bilge is cleaned and painted up to the floor line. Use one coat of 
Firzite and one coat of marine paint. Bottoms of the floorboards are 
also painted and the flooring is then screwed in place.   After 
the decking is on, the cabin sides are installed. They're followed 
by the front and rear bulkheads as illustrated. The windshield glass 
is shatterproof and Plexiglas is used in the cabin.   {Inside}, 
bunks are framed up and installed as indicated. A head is a handy 
thing to have and I installed one under a removable section of the 
port bunk. The sink in the hinged panel above the bunk drains into 
the head and a five-gallon water tank is mounted on the bulkhead above 
the sink. For padding the seats and bunks, I used Ensolite, Type 
~M. 
Lightweight, non-absorbent, fire resistant and dimensionally stable, 
it is easily bonded to the wood with contact cement. Available 
in **f sheets, it costs about a dollar a square foot. 
<You can build this vacation cottage yourself. It is a full scale, 
small, 
but efficient house that can become a year 'round retreat complete 
in every detail. Because of the unique design by the architect Egils 
Hermanovski, you can build most of it in your own home workshop 
in your spare time. Most of it is panelized and utilizes standard materials, 
and requires the use of only simple tools. On the following 
pages and in the following issues we take you every step of the way to 
your vacation cottage, from choosing the proper site to applying the 
final trim>.

In recognition of the growing trend for second homes, 
or vacation cottages, we have designed this one specifically with 
the family handyman in mind. It is a big project, not to be taken lightly. 
But each step has been broken down into easy stages, utilizing 
standard materials and simple tools, well within the capabilities of the 
handyman. 

#THE THEORY#

The idea behind our design is modular units, 
or panelization. Everything possible has been scaled to standard 
sizes and measurements of materials. Wall panels and structural timbers 
are standard as are windows and doors, making for a minimum of cutting. 
We have developed an ingenious method of interlocking these so 
that you can make the major part of your house in your own workshop, 
panel by panel, according to plan. Thus, when you have prepared your 
foundation and laid the floor, these can be trucked to the site and erected 
with a small crew of friends in a weekend. The roof timbers are 
precut and the panels standard so that the house can be completely enclosed 
in a matter of three or four days. Then you can do the finishing 
touches at your leisure. 

#A WARNING#

Due to the fact that building 
codes and regulations vary so much throughout the country, the first 
thing to do is to find out what, if any, they are. Close to a large 
city they might even specify the size of the nails used; in a remote 
section there might be no restrictions at all. This can usually 
be found out at the nearest town hall. At the same time check the electrical, 
plumbing, and sanitary requirements, as well as possible zoning 
regulations. Whether electricity and public water and sewers are available 
or not, check the local customs in the use of bottled or ~L-P 
gas (we give you alternatives later on). Be sure that this information 
is reasonably official and not just an unfounded opinion. If there 
are any major restrictions, they usually can be obtained in printed 
form. Where a building permit is required, find out what you must 
present when applying for one. In many cases, you must file a complete 
set of plans with the local building inspector. These will be available 
at cost from our Plans Department. 

#THE SITE#

Some general 
things to look for in a site, if you haven't already bought one, are 
accessibility, water drainage, and orientation. How are the roads, 
and how will they stand up? Is there evidence of wash-outs on the property; 
swampy areas or intermittent springs? A visit in the early 
spring after a thaw will be very informative. Note where the sun rises 
and sets, and ask which direction the prevailing winds and storms 
come from. Will the view be something you can live with? Don't 
worry too much about rocky or sloping terrain; we will take up alternative 
foundations later on. 

#THE MATERIALS#

With this first issue 
we give you a list of the materials needed to build the basic (~A 
version) and the expandable (~B version). This will be <for the 
shell of the house only> (roof, walls, and floor), and does not include 
the carport or balcony. This will permit you to get a <rough> 
estimate of how much the materials for the shell will cost. Bear in mind 
that this does <not> include interior panels for partitions, fancy 
flooring, appliances and fixtures, electrical wiring, and plumbing, 
all of which will be taken up in detail in later issues.   The 
wall panels are constructed of a framework of standard **f and **f of 
a good grade, free from structural faults. They should be as straight 
as possible, as this will effect their ability to mesh properly when 
the walls are erected. The outside surface of the solid units shall 
be of an exterior grade of panel board such as plywood, plastic coated 
panel board, high density particle board, asbestos-cement board, or 
any other product locally obtainable upon recommendation of your building 
supply dealer. The inner panels do not have to be weatherproof, and 
the choice will depend on the quality of finish desired. All panel 
board comes in standard **f foot size. It is recommended that panels 
be both glued as well as nailed to the frame. The fixed window panels 
with louvers should have a good grade of 1/8-inch double-strength glass 
set in a mastic glazing compound. The louvers are constructed as 
shown in the detail, with a drop door for ventilation. There are standard 
sliding glass windows in wood or aluminum frames for those panels 
requiring them. The door panels are designed to accommodate standard 
doors which should be of exterior grade. The filler panels for the gable 
ends are cut from full **f sheets as shown, leaving no wastage. The 
battens covering the joints are of **f stock and are applied after 
the walls are erected. All nails should be rustproof, and aluminum is 
highly recommended. Note: If 1/2-inch panel board is used inside 
and out, or 5/8-inch one side and 3/8-inch the other, and 1/8-inch glass 
is used, stock lumber in **f, **f, and **f can be used in making the 
glass panels. Other thicknesses may necessitate ripping a special 
size lumber for the glass trim. In any case, there is no special milling 
or rabbeting required for the panels.

With modern techniques of woodworking and the multitude of cutting 
tools, fixtures, and attachments available, the drill press has become 
a basic home workshop tool. The drill press consists of a vertical 
shaft (spindle) which is tapered or threaded on one end to hold a 
drill chuck, a tubular housing (quill) in which the spindle is mounted, 
a head in which the quill is mounted, a feed lever which moves the 
quill up or down, a power source, and a movable table upon which the work 
is placed. There is often a means of locking the quill and, on larger 
presses, the table can be tilted.   The size of the press is 
usually expressed in terms of chuck capacity (the maximum diameter tool 
shank it will hold) or distance between the spindle center and the 
column. A press with an 11 inch capacity lets you drill to the center 
of a 22 inch board or circle.   A new radial drill press with 
a 16 inch capacity has a tilting head that allows drilling to be done 
at any angle. The head is mounted on a horizontal arm that swivels on 
the supporting column to position the drill bit instead of the work. 

#SET-UP AND MAINTENANCE#

The drill press should be leveled and, depending 
on whether it is a bench or floor model, bolted securely to a 
sturdy bench or stand or screwed to the floor with lag or expansion screws. 
This will reduce vibration and increase accuracy.   A coat 
of paste wax or a rubdown with a piece of wax paper will protect the 
polished surface of the table; wiping with a slightly oiled cloth 
will discourage rusting of the column and quill. Presses not fitted 
with sealed spindle bearings will need a drop of oil now and then in 
the lubrication holes in the quill. The rest of the press should be kept 
clean by dusting with a clean rag or brush.   Be careful to 
keep the drive belt free of oil and grease. Belt tension is adjusted 
by manipulation of two locking bolts and a movable motor mount. Keep 
the belt just tight enough so the pulleys won't slip when pulled by 
hand; excess tension will only cause undue wear on the motor and spindle 
bearings. Most drill presses have a quill return spring that raises 
the spindle automatically when the feed lever is released and holds 
the quill in the raised position. The return spring tension may be 
adjusted to suit individual requirements by gripping the spring housing 
with a pair of pliers (to prevent the spring from unwinding when it 
is released), loosening the lock nut or screw, and rotating the housing 
until the desired tension is achieved. Turning the housing clockwise 
will reduce tension, counter-clockwise will increase it. 

#DON'T 
LOSE THE CHUCK KEY#

Some manufacturers have had the foresight to provide 
a socket for the chuck key; otherwise, you'll have to spend 
a few minutes to either attach a suitable spring clip somewhere on the 
press head or fit the key to a length of light chain and fasten to the 
bottom of the motor mount so that the key is out of the way when not 
in use. 

#FEEDS AND SPEEDS#

Drill speeds are important if you want 
a good job. Each cutting tool will operate best at a given speed, 
depending on the material worked. On most drill presses, it is impossible 
to get the exact speed, but you can come close by adjusting the 
drive belt on the step-cone pulleys. You will find a chart giving the 
various speed ratios available with your particular drill press somewhere 
in the instruction booklet that came with the tool. See the table 
on page 34 for exact recommended speeds. Generally, the larger the 
tool and the harder the material, the slower the speed.   Feed pressure 
is also of major importance. Too much pressure will force the 
tool beyond its cutting capacity and result in rough cuts and jammed 
or broken tools. Too light a feed, particularly with metal or other hard 
material, causes overheating of the tool and burning of the cutting 
edge. The best results will be obtained by matching the correct speed 
with a steady feed pressure that lets the tool cut easily at an even 
rate. 

#COMMON DRILLING TOOLS#

There are numerous types and styles 
of tools to drill holes. The most common are the twist drill, the 
solid center shaft with interchangeable cutting blades, the double spur 
bit, and the power wood bit. All will do a good job if sharp, but the 
twist drills don't cut quite as smoothly as the others, since they 
do not have the outlining spurs that sever the fibers before actual 
boring starts.   The adjustable fly cutter is very useful for cutting 
large diameter holes and can be used to cut exact-size discs by 
reversing the cutter blade. Since fly cutters are one sided and not 
balanced, they should be used at the slowest speed available, and fed 
very slowly to avoid binding. Fly cutters can fool you into putting 
your hand too close to the tool, so if you want to avoid nicked fingers, 
keep your hands well out of the way. 

#SIMPLE HOLE DRILLING OPERATIONS# 

When drilling all the way through a workpiece, always place a 
piece of scrap wood underneath. This will not only protect the work 
table, but also assure a clean breakthrough. Another method of assuring 
a clean hole is to first drill a small pilot hole all the way through, 
then drill half way with the dimensional bit, turn the piece over, 
and finish from the other side. In soft woods with pronounced grain, 
there is sometimes a tendency for the hole to wander, due to the varying 
hardness of the wood. In this case, drilling a small pilot hole or 
clamping the work will do much to improve accuracy.   When a hole 
is to be bored to a predetermined depth, mark the depth on the side 
of the stock, then run the bit down so that it is even with the mark. 
The depth gauge rod can now be set, and any number of holes bored to 
exact and identical depth.

The old-time bridges over the Merrimac River in Massachusetts 
are of unusual interest in many respects. For their length, their 
types of construction, their picturesque settings, and their literary 
associations, they should be known and remembered. In this sequence 
I shall write about them in the order of their erection.   The 
first bridge known to have been covered wholly or in part,- and perhaps 
the most interesting one, connected Newbury (now Newburyport) with 
Salisbury Point. Its building was first proposed in 1791, when a 
group of citizens, mostly Newburyport men, petitioned the General Court 
for an act of incorporation. This document began: _"NO& 
1 NEWBURY PORT, MAY 30TH, 1791_   "Whereas, a Bridge over 
Merrimack River, from the Land of Hon'ble Jonathan Greenleaf, 
Esquire, in Newbery, to Deer Island, and from said Island to Salisbury, 
would be of very extensive utility, by affording a safe Conveyance 
to Carriages, Teams 
and Travellers at all seasons of the year, 
and at all Times of Tide.   "We, the Subscribers, do agree, 
that as soon as a convenient Number of Persons have subscribed to 
this, or a similar Writing, We will present a petition to the Hon'ble 
General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, praying 
for an Act incorporating into a Body politic the subscribers to such 
Writing with Liberty to build such a Bridge, and a Right to demand 
a Toll equal to that received at Malden Bridge, and on like Terms, 
and if such an Act shall be obtained, then we severally agree each 
with the others, that we will hold in the said Bridge the several shares 
set against our respective Names, the whole into two hundred shares 
being divided, and that we will pay such sums of Money at such Times 
and in such Manners, as by the said proposed Corporation, shall 
be directed and required".   This paper was signed by forty-five 
persons, subscribing a total of two hundred shares.   A month 
later the General Court served notice to the town of Newbury that 
the bridge was to be built. The matter was considered and reconsidered, 
and finally opposed, but in spite of many objections, the Court 
granted a charter on January 9, 1792. On November 26 of that year the 
bridge was completed and opened.   Timothy Palmer, who invented 
and later patented the arch type of construction for wooden bridges, 
was the genius who planned and supervised the building of the Essex, 
or "Deer Island" bridge although the actual work was carried 
out under the direction of William Coombs, who received @ 300 as 
recompense.

This two-part bridge is best described by Rev& Timothy 
Dwight, president of Yale College, in his "Travels in New-England 
and New-York", published in New Haven in 1821. He says 
of it:   "It consists of two divisions, separated by an island 
at a small distance from the southern shore. The division between 
the island and this shore, consists principally of an arch; whose 
chord is one hundred and sixty feet, and whose vortex is forty feet (it 
was actually 37 feet) above the high-water mark. In appearance and 
construction it resembles the Pascataqua bridge. The whole length of 
Essex bridge is one thousand and thirty feet and its breadth thirty-four. 
I have already mentioned that Mr& Timothy Palmer of Newburyport 
was the inventor of the arched bridges in this country. As Mr& 
Palmer was educated to house-building only, and had never seen a 
structure of this nature; he certainly deserves not a little credit 
for the invention".   It is hardly necessary to remind students 
of covered bridges that Timothy Palmer was born in 1751 in nearby 
Rowley; that he moved with his parents to West Boxford when he was 
sixteen years old; and was there apprenticed to a builder and architect, 
Moody Spofford. It was indeed a remarkable feat that a man 
who had had no experience of bridge building should have applied the 
principle of the arch, which appears in his famous bridges at Portsmouth, 
Haverhill, and Philadelphia.   The Essex Merrimack Bridge 
when first built was not covered. As far as we know, no American 
bridge had been thus protected in 1792. Richard S& Allen is the 
authority for the statement that the northern section was probably roofed 
by 1810. Its original appearance is shown in an engraving published 
in the "Massachusetts Magazine" in May 1793, which is reproduced 
herewith (Fig& 1). A brief description accompanying the picture 
says that the bridge contained more than 6000 tons of timber. Between 
the abutments on the Newbury shore and the south bank of Deer Island 
there was one span or arch measuring 160 feet; between the north 
shore of Deer Island and the Salisbury side there was an arch of 
113 feet and a series of piers with a draw forty feet long.   A 
dinner and celebration in honor of this piece of engineering took place 
July 4, 1793, in a tavern erected by the corporation on the island. 
It is said that the eccentric Timothy Dexter, who was one of the 
first share-holders, stood on the table and made a speech worthy of the 
occasion. The "Essex Journal" says that he "delivered an oration 
on the bridge, which for elegance of style, propriety of speech 
or force of argument, was truly Ciceronian". The reporter must have 
written this with tongue in cheek, because Dexter's oration could 
hardly be understood; and, although he later explained that he was 
talking French, it seems rather more likely that he had succumbed to 
the joys of the evening.   The north portion of the Essex bridge 
was well worth the cost of construction, although it proved to be twice 
what was estimated in the beginning. It stood in its original form 
until 1882. The southern half, however, on account of its underbracing, 
was considered by boat owners a menace to navigation. In 1810 it 
was torn down and replaced by a chain suspension bridge. This was built 
by John Templeman from plans submitted by James Finley of Fayette 
County, Pennsylvania. Timothy Palmer had general supervision 
of the work.   An advertisement in the "Newburyport Herald", 
December 21, 1810, shows Palmer in a new light as an expert on chain 
bridges. It reads: _"CHAIN BRIDGES_   "Information 
is hereby given that Mr& Timothy Palmer of Newburyport, Mass& 
has agreed to take charge of the concerns of the Patentees of the 
Chain Bridge, in the states of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont, 
Rhode Island, and Connecticut, so far as relates to the sale 
of Patent rights and the construction of Chain Bridges.   "Mr& 
Palmer will attend to any applications relating to bridges and if 
desired will view the proposed site, and lay out and superintend the 
work, or recommend a suitable person to execute it.   John 
Templeman

"Approved, Timothy Palmer"   This chain bridge proved 
less durable than the wooden arch on the Salisbury end. It fell, 
February 6, 1827, carrying with it a horse and wagon, two men and four 
oxen. The horse and men were saved, but the oxen drowned. In spite 
of this catastrophe, the bridge was rebuilt on the same plan and opened 
again on July 17, 1827. This second chain bridge was 570 feet long, 
had two thirty-foot towers and a draw, and a double roadway.

The Essex bridge was a toll crossing until 1868, when the County 
Commissioners laid out all the Merrimack bridges as highways.

Sturdy and strong after more than a century of continuous 
use, the old covered, wooden bridge that spans the Tygartis Valley River 
at Philippi will have a distinctive part in the week-long observance 
of the first land battle of the Civil War at its home site, May 
28th to June 3rd. Colonel Frederick W& Lander, impersonated, 
will again make his break-neck ride down the steep declivity of Talbott's 
(now College) Hill and thunder across the bridge to join Colonel 
Benjamin F& Kelley's (West) Virginia Infantry, then swarming 
through the streets in pursuit of the retreating Confederates. 
He was closely followed by the Ohio and Indiana troops- thus the 
old bridge has another distinction; that of being the first such structure 
secured by force of arms in the war of the '60s.   The 
bridge has survived the natural hazards of the elements, war, fire, 
and floods, as well as injuries incident to heavy traffic, for more than 
a hundred years. Twice during the Civil War it was saved from destruction 
by the opposing armies by the pleas and prayers of a local minister. 
It still stands as a monument to the engineering skills of the 
last century and still serves in the gasoline age to carry heavy traffic 
on U&S& Route 250- the old Beverly and Fairmont Turnpike. 
It is one of the very few, if not the only surviving bridge of 
its type to serve a main artery of the U&S& highway system, thus 
it is far more than a relic of the horse and buggy days.   This 
covered, wooden bridge is so closely identified with the first action 
in the early morning of June 3, 1861, and with subsequent troop movements 
of both armies in the Philippi area that it has become a part 
and parcel of the war story. So frequently has pictures of the bridge 
appeared in books and in national publications that it vies with the 
old John Brown Fort at Harpers Ferry as the two nationally best known 
structures in West Virginia.   Completed and opened for traffic 
in 1852, the bridge was designed and built by Lemuel Chenoweth 
and his brother, Eli, of Beverly. The Chenoweth brothers were experienced 
bridge builders, and against the competition of other, and better 
known, bridge designers and builders they had constructed nine of 
the covered, wooden bridges on the Parkersburg and Staunton Turnpike 
a dozen years before, as well as many other bridges for several counties. 
The Philippi bridge, however, was the Chenoweth master piece, 
with its 139-foot, dual lane, span- and it stands today as a monument 
to its builders. Never rebuilt, the bridge was strengtened in 1938 
by two extra piers, a concrete floor, and a walk-way along the upper 
side in order to care for modern traffic.   During the war it 
was in constant use by the wagon trains transporting supplies from the 
railhead at Grafton to the troops operating in the interior. Union 
soldiers at times used it for sleeping quarters to escape from the 
rain or other inclement weather, and some of them left momentoes of their 
stay by carving their names and small tokens on its walls and beams.

But what the elements could not do was seriously threatened 
when Brigadier General William E& (Grumble) Jones reached Philippi 
while on the famous Jones-Imboden raid in May, 1863. General 
Jones was fresh from a long series of bridge burnings, including the 
long bridge at Fairmont, and, after seeing a great drove of horses 
and cattle he had collected safely across the bridge, he sent his men 
to work piling combustibles in and around it. Reverend Joshual Corder, 
a Baptist minister, gathered a few citizens of Southern sympathies, 
to call on Jones and plead with him to spare the structure; he 
reasoned and argued, pointing out that Jones or other Confederate 
commanders would need it should troops pass that way in retreat. Jones 
relented, he did not order his men to apply the torch- the drove of 
livestock was driven up the valley, via Beverly, and across the mountains 
to feed and serve the Confederate army, while Jones and his raiders 
turned toward Buckhannon to join forces with Imboden. 
Again Reverend Corder saved the bridge when Union soldiers planned 
to destroy it, after filling its two lanes with hay and straw- but 
for what reason is not recorded nor remembered, certainly not because 
of pressure from an opposing Confederate force. On the second occasion 
it took prayers as well as reason to dissuade the soldiers from their 
purpose.   Centering around this historic old structure, a group 
of public-spirited Barbour County citizens have organized and planned 
a week-long series of events, beginning on May 28th and continuing 
through June 3rd, to observe most appropriately the centennial of 
the first land engagement of the Civil War at Philippi.

It is a good eight years now since each of us acquired a swimming 
pool- eight enlightening, vigorous, rigorous, not wholly unrewarding 
years. We have learned a lot- a dash of hydrochemistry here, a 
bit about plumbing and pump-priming there. We have had sound grounding 
in the principles of the mailed-fist-in-velvet-glove school of diplomacy. 
We have become amateur insurance experts and fine-feathered yard 
birds. True, our problems have lessened a bit as more and more of 
our neighbors have built their own pools, thereby diluting our spectacular 
attractions. But problems cling to pools, as any pool owner knows. 
So our innate generosity of spirit prompts us to share our trials, 
errors and solutions with any who are taking the pool plunge for the 
first time- in the pious hope that some may profit from our experience. 

#WHERE TO PUT IT#

Position may not be everything, but in the 
case of a pool it can certainly contribute difficulties, social and/or 
physical. We speak from varying viewpoints. One of us has a pool set 
in a wooded area very near the house. The other has his pool far away 
from the house in a field high on a hill.   If you are dreaming 
of a blue, shimmering pool right outside your living room windows, 
close your eyes firmly and fill in the picture with lots and lots of 
children, damp towels, squashed tubes of suntan oil and semi-inflated 
plastic toys. You are likely to be nearer the truth.   You can 
also see that the greater the proximity of the pool to your main living 
quarters, the greater the chance for violation of family privacy, annoying 
noise and the let's-make-your-house-our-club attitude. On the 
other hand, out-of-sight does not lead to out-of-mind when children 
cannot be easily observed and you have to make a long trek to reach the 
pool.   Another dilemma: As picturesque as a sylvan pond in 
the forest may be, trees offer a leaf and root hazard to the well-being 
of a pool. Yet a grassy approach can turn a pool into a floating 
lawn every time the grass is mowed.   As in choosing a wife, it 
is only sensible to consider also how appealing a pool is likely to be 
in bad weather as well as in good. In the colder climes, for instance, 
you will have to live through the many unglamorous winter months when 
your pool will hardly look its best. It may be a big hole in the ground 
filled with salt hay, or an ice floe studded with logs. Even a 
neat, plastic-covered plunge is not exactly a joy to behold. (We do, 
however, recommend those patented covers to prevent both people and junk- 
flora and fauna generally- from accidentally wintering in the 
pool.)   Probably no location for a pool is perfect on all counts. 
Naturally it will be dictated to a large extent by the shape and 
size of your land. But if space and money are no problem and small children 
are not on hand every day, it is certainly more restful to have 
your pool and entertainment area removed from the immediate environs 
of the house. And a good several feet around the pool should be neither 
greensward nor woods, but good hard pavement.   The placement 
of your pool, however, will not of itself solve the two major problems 
of pool owning- those that involve your social life and those pertaining 
to safety. Coping with them demands stern discipline- of yourself 
as well as of your family, neighbors, friends and anyone you ever 
talked to on a transoceanic jet.   Eight years ago while we were 
going through the mud-sweat-and-tears construction period, we were 
each solaced by the vision of early morning dips and evening home-comings 
to a cool family collected around the pool with a buffet table laid 
out nearby for the lord and master's delectation. But not even our 
first pool-side 
gatherings came anywhere near those rosy fantasies. 
We seemed to be witnessing the population explosion right in our own 
backyards. Our respective families looked as if they had quadrupled. 
Had we taken a lien on a state park? Not at all. We had merely been 
discovered by the pool sharks. We were in business!   From 
proud pool-owners to perpetual hosts and handymen was a short step- 
no more than the change from city clothes to trunks. Nai^ve of us, 
maybe, but the results of our impulsive invitations to "come over 
next summer and swim in our new pool" were both unexpected and unsettling. 

#OUR BOOK OF ETIQUETTE#

After the first few weeks, it was 
obvious that rules had to be made, laid down and obeyed- even if our 
popularity ratings became subnormal as a result. So rules we made, 
in unabashed collusion. Since our viewpoints in this respect coincided 
precisely, we present the fruits of our efforts herewith as a single 
social code for pool owners.   First and foremost: No one- 
no, not anyone- in the family is allowed to issue blanket invitations 
to his or her own circle. Just short of forty lashes we finally managed 
to coerce our children to this view. Their friends and ours are 
welcome to share the pool, but on our terms and at our times. 
No friends are to arrive without an invitation or without at least telephoning 
beforehand.   No ringers, either- even if they are trailing 
legitimate invitees. We want to know when the Potlatches telephone 
exactly how many they are planning to bring, so that we won't 
end up with a splashing mob that looks like Coney Island in August.

No young children may come without adults except for a specific, 
organized, chaperoned party. And accompanying adults are urged to 
keep an alert and sensible eye on their responsibilities. A gaggle 
of gabbling mothers, backs to the pool, is no safeguard.   No bottle 
pool is tolerated- bottle pool being our lingo for those who come 
to swim and sink into our bar while protesting that they can only dunk 
and run. (Sanity, solvency and relations with our wine merchant took 
a beating that first summer as we inadvertently became the neighborhood 
free-drink stop.)   We designated one day a week as the time 
when neighborhood teen-agers might swim at definite hours. This has 
saved us from constant requests seven days a week and made us feel less 
brutal to the young "less fortunate" than ours.   We also 
worked out logistics for Sunday afternoon swimmers who arrive two hours 
early with their weekend guests while we are still enjoying an alfresco 
lunch <en famille>. We gently usher them to an island of tables 
and chairs strategically placed on the far side of the pool where 
they can amuse each other until we get ready to merge sides.   All 
dressing (undressing to be more exact) must be done in our small bath 
house or at the swimmers' homes. (To avoid any possible excuse for 
a dripping parade through your house, it is a good idea to have a telephone 
extension near the pool as well as a direct outdoor route between 
the pool and the parking area.) We do, however, provide a limited 
number of extra suits, mainly for children, and we stock extra towels 
and a few inexpensive bathing conveniences. Life-preservers, the buckle-on 
kapok-filled kind, are held in readiness, too, for the very young. 

#PRESERVING LIFE AND LIMB#

Safety rules, of course, are more 
important than all the others put together.   In many localities, 
now, the law requires all pools to be fenced, usually to a minimum 
height of 5 feet. But fenced or unfenced, no pool-side is the place 
for running or horseplay. We allow no underwater endurance contests, 
either, or inexpert versions of water polo.   Diving boards must 
have non-skid surfaces (coco matting takes an awful beating from chlorine 
and rots quickly, but grit-impregnated paints are excellent). And 
divers must be enjoined to look before they leap, either on top of 
someone else or onto a pool edge.   Our pools also have wide, shallow 
steps- for the benefit of the littlest swimmers who can thus 
be introduced to the water with far greater safety than a ladder affords.

All bottles must be kept a safe distance away from the pool 
and drinking glasses are banned in favor of plastic or metal cups.

When you first acquire a pool, we earnestly recommend- for your 
own mental health- a good long chat with your insurance agent. You 
should be prepared to cope with any pitfall such as plunges into empty 
pools or shallow ends and all manner of winter as well as summer lawsuits.

Soignee pools, alas, do not just happen. They are the 
result of a constant and careful contest with the elements. Unless 
you want to make your wife a pool widow and to spend a great many of your 
leisure hours nursing your pool's pristine purity, its care and 
feeding- from ~pH content to filtering and vacuuming- is best left 
to a weekly or bi-monthly professional service. Of course, if your 
pool is close to the house, your wife can always add it to her housekeeping 
chores (you hope). Or you can make pool care the price of swimming 
for teen-agers. Even so, every pool owner, in case of emergency, 
should have some idea of what makes things work. A brief course in 
hydraulics from the pool builders may well be appreciated in a future 
crisis. 

#PRESERVING THE POOL#

A sudden high rise in temperature 
will turn your pool poison green overnight. You need more chlorine. The 
walls feel slippery. You need algaecide. With or without professional 
help, you will have to be able to do some of these jobs yourself 
unless you have a full-time pool nurse.   You should see to it 
that the trap, the dirt-catcher in front of the filter, is always clean. 
A pool is no place for a shut trap.   You should firmly insist 
that no bobby pins or hair pins be worn in the water. When shed, 
they leave rust marks.   You can hope against hope that come spring 
cleaning, your fair-weather friends will lend a hand at scrubbing 
and furbishing. It has happened.   Many hours of spring cleaning 
will be saved, however, if you remove the main drain grate when you 
close the pool season in the fall. As the pool is emptied, stand by 
to brush down the walls and bottom while they are still wet. Much of 
the dirt and leaf stain is easily removed when damp, but requires dynamite 
if allowed to dry. If you have a 6- to 8-inch drain pipe, you may 
easily wash out all the debris when the grate is out. Of course, when 
your 6-inch torrent of water is released, it may cause a lot of comment 
as it passes through or by neighboring properties. Do not forget 
this possibility.   If your pool is located on or near sloping 
ground, it may have natural drainage which is certainly more desirable 
than to be faced with the annual expense and labor of first pumping 
out the water and then scooping out all the debris.   It may be 
true that pool lighting dramatizes an evening scene, but lights also attract 
all the insect life for miles around. Once on the water, these 
little visitors seldom leave, and this adds to your filtering and vacuuming 
problems as well as providing a slapping good time for all those 
present. Often one floodlight high in a tree will provide all the light 
you need at much less expense.   Our experience has taught 
us that it pays to buy the best equipment possible, from pipes to 
brushes. 
Follow pool-care instructions to the letter, and be sure that one 
person (in the family or not) is regularly responsible for each aspect 
of the job, with no chance for claiming, "It wasn't my turn".

Never let anyone not in the know take a turn at the valves- 
even if the little boys do want to play space ship. You may find yourself 
hitting bottom, literally, as you discover that water is running 
out even while you are putting it in.

DRAW a line across the country at the latitude of lower Pennsylvania. 
Any house built now below that line without air conditioning 
will be <obsolete in 10 years>. Fortunately, it is the ~FHA 
which has arrived at this conclusion, for it means that cooling equipment 
of all kinds may now be included in a mortgage, and thus acquired 
with a minimum of financial stress. Even if you live above that line, 
the ~FHA will back you, for they have decided that the inclusion 
of air conditioning in <all> new homes is a good thing and should 
be encouraged.   New simplified packaged units, recently devised 
prefabricated glass-fiber ducts, and improved add-on techniques make 
it possible to acquire a system for an 1800-square-foot house for as 
little as $600 to $900. Two men can often do the installation in a 
day. You can install it yourself- this is a central system that will 
cool <every part> of your house. Its upkeep? No less an authority 
than the ~FHA concurs that the savings air conditioning makes 
possible more than offset its operating costs. _IS IT WORTH-WHILE?_ 
Home air conditioning has come a long way from the early days 
of overcooled theaters and the thermal shock they inflicted. We know 
now that a 15-degree differential in temperature is the maximum usually 
desirable, and accurate controls assure the comfort we want. 
We know, too, that health is never harmed by summer cooling. On the 
contrary, there are fewer colds and smaller doctor bills. The filtered 
air benefits allergies, asthma, sinus, hay fever. Control of temperature 
and humidity is a godsend to the aged and the invalid. Heart conditions 
and high blood pressure escape the stresses brought on by oppressive 
heat.   Housekeeping is easier. The cleaner air means 
less time spent pushing a vacuum, fewer trips to the dry cleaners, lighter 
loads for the washing machine. The need for reupholstering, redecorating, 
repainting becomes more infrequent. Clothes hold their shape 
better, and mildew and rust become almost forgotten words.   It 
will improve your disposition. When you're less fatigued, things 
just naturally look brighter. The children can have their daytime naps 
and hot meals, and be put to bed on schedule in shade-darkened rooms. 
You'll sleep longer and better, too, awake refreshed and free of 
hot weather nerves.   You can forget about screens, and leave the 
storm windows up all year around.   Best of all, central air conditioning 
is something you can afford. Like its long-lived cousin, 
the refrigerator, a conditioner can be expected to last 20 to 25 years 
or more. That brings its per-year cost down mighty low. _FOR ANY 
HOUSE._ No matter what style your home is, ranch, two-story, Colonial 
or contemporary, central air conditioning is easily installed. The 
equipment won't take up valuable space either. It can go in out-of-the-way 
waste space.   But there's no denying that the easiest 
and most economical way to get year-'round whole-house air conditioning 
is when you build. If that's done, the house can be designed 
and oriented for best operation, and this can mean savings both in the 
size of equipment and in the cost of the house itself.   If you 
can't see your way clear to have summer cooling included when building, 
by all means <make provision for its easy adding later>. Manufacturers 
have designed equipment for just such circumstances, and your 
savings over starting from scratch will be substantial.   If your 
house is to have a forced warm air system, cooling can be a part of 
it. This costs less than having a completely separate cooling system, 
for your regular heating ductwork, filters and furnace blower do double 
duty for cooling. You can get year-'round air conditioners in the 
same variety of styles in which you buy a furnace alone- high or 
low boy, horizontal or counterflow. The units can be installed in basement, 
attic, crawlspace, or in a closet located in the living area. The 
cooling coil is located in the furnace's outlet. From the coil 
small copper pipes connect to a weatherproof refrigeration section set 
in the yard, garage, carport, or basement.   If you plan to add 
cooling later to your heating system, there are things to watch for. 
Be sure ducts that require insulation get it when they are installed. 
They may be inaccessible later. <Be sure your ducts and blower are 
big enough to handle cooling>. This is especially important if you 
live in a mild-winter zone. <Be sure you get a perimeter heating system>, 
and diffusers that will work as well for cooling as they do for 
heating.   You can get a hot water system that will also work 
for cooling your house. For cooling, chilled water is circulated instead 
of hot water. Instead of radiators you'll have cooling-heating 
units, each with its own thermostat. These systems are more expensive 
than year-'round forced air systems. The minimum cost for an average 
one-story, 7-room house with basement, is likely to run $1500 above 
the cost of the heating alone. _SEPARATE SYSTEMS._ If the problems 
of combining cooling with your heating are knotty, it may be cheaper 
to plan on a completely separate cooling system. The simplest kind 
of separate system uses a single, self-contained unit. It is, in effect, 
an oversize room conditioner equipped with prefab glass-fiber ducts 
to distribute the cooled, cleaned, dehumidified air where it is wanted.

In a long, rambling ranch, two such units can be installed, 
one serving the living area, the other the sleeping zone. In a two-story 
house, one unit may be installed in the basement to serve the first 
floor, another in the attic to cool the second. In each case, having 
separate systems for living and sleeping areas has the advantage of 
permitting individual zone control. _THE HEAT PUMP._ One of the 
more remarkable of the new cooling systems is one that can be switched 
to heating. As you know, a conditioner makes indoor air cool by pumping 
the heat out of it and then releasing this heat outdoors. A relatively 
simple switching arrangement reverses the cycle so that the machine 
literally runs backward, and the heat is extracted from outdoor air 
and turned indoors.   Up until recently, this heat pump method 
of warming air was efficient only in areas of mild winters and when 
outside temperatures were above 40 degrees. Now, the machine has been 
improved to a point where it is generally more economical than oil heat 
at temperatures down to 15 degrees. You can get this added heating 
feature for as little as $200 more than the price of cooling alone.

Consider it as a standby setup, at negligible cost, for those 
emergencies when the furnace quits, a blizzard holds up fuel delivery, 
or for cool summer mornings or evenings when you don't want to start 
up your whole heating plant. _WHAT SIZE CONDITIONER?_ How large 
a cooling unit you need, and the method of its installation, depends 
on a variety of factors. Among other things, besides the nature of 
your house and how much heat finds its way into its various rooms from 
the outside, it will depend upon your personal habits and the makeup 
of your family. Families with children usually don't want the house 
quite so cool. If you are a party thrower, you may need added capacity. 
The body is a heat machine, and 20 to 25 guests can easily double 
your cooling load.   Cooling requirements are best expressed in 
terms of ~BTU's. A ~BTU is a unit of heat, and the ~BTU 
rating of a conditioner refers to how much heat your machine can 
pump <out> of your house in an hour. A very rough rule of thumb is 
that, under favorable conditions, you'll need 15 ~BTU's of cooling 
for every square foot of your house. This is if outdoor temperatures 
have a high average of 95 degrees. You'll need more if the high 
average is above that, less if it's below.   Coolers are also 
rated by tons. A ton of cooling compares to the cooling you get by 
melting a ton of ice. By accepted definition, a 1-ton conditioner will 
provide 12,000 ~BTU of cooling in one hour.   You may find 
a conditioner rated by horsepower. It is generally an inaccurate 
method of rating, for the horsepower is that of the compressor motor, 
and many other components beside it determine how much cooling you'll 
get. A 1-~hp conditioner, for example, may vary in effectiveness 
from under 8,000 ~BTU to well over 10,000 ~BTU.   The 
safest procedure is to let your builder estimate the size of the unit 
you need, rather than trying to do this yourself.   Don't urge 
your builder to give you a little extra cooling capacity just to be 
sure you have enough. Better to have your equipment slightly undersized 
than too big. Here's why:   Reducing humidity is often 
as important as cooling. An oversize unit will cool off your house quickly, 
then shut down for a long period. Before it cycles on again, humidity 
can build up and make you uncomfortable even though the temperature 
is still low. With a unit of the right size, a compressor will 
run continuously during hot weather, reducing humidity as evenly as it 
does temperature. _MONEY-SAVING TIPS._ Attention to details can 
cut in half the size unit you need and pare operating expense proportionately. 
A well-designed, 1200-square-foot house can be comfortably cooled 
and heated for as little as $128 a year, or $11 a month. 
If you have a house which heat doesn't penetrate easily, your unit 
will have less heat to remove. Keep the direct sun from reaching the 
house and you've won the first battle. In a new house, generous roof 
overhangs are a logical and effective solution. If the house you plan 
to buy or build won't have big overhangs, you can still do a fair 
job of keeping the sun off walls and windows with properly designed 
trellises, fences and awnings.   Shade trees, too, are a big help, 
so keep them if you can. Drawn blinds and draperies do some good, 
but not nearly as much as shading devices on the outside of the house.

The more directly the sun strikes walls and roof, the greater 
its heat impact. The way a house is set on its lot can therefore influence 
how much cooling you're going to need. A shift in the walls, 
or a change in the roof slope, so the sun hits them more obliquely, can 
save you money.   You can use heat-absorbing glass to stop the 
sun, double glass and insulated glass to combat condensation. <Restrict 
large glass areas to the north and south sides of the house>. 
They're easier to shade there. An attic space above insulation makes 
a house easier to cool. You'll even gain by putting your water 
heater outside the conditioned space, and using an electric range instead 
of a gas one. Gas adds to the moisture load.   Insulate, weatherstrip, 
double-glaze to the maximum. In insulation, the numbers to 
remember are 6-4-2. They stand for 6 inches of mineral wool insulation 
in the ceiling, 4 inches in the side walls, 2 inches in the floors. 
Such extra-thick insulation not only permits a much smaller cooling 
installation, but will continue to reduce operating expenses both in 
heating and cooling. A light-colored roof will reduce sun heat by 50 
per cent.   It costs two to three times as much to remove a ~BTU 
in summer as it does to add one in winter, so every solitary ~BTU 
is worth attention. You'll foil them in droves, along with 
their pal humidity, by having and using a kitchen range exhaust fan, a 
bathroom ventilator for when you shower, and an outside vent for the 
clothes drier. _KEEPING CONDITIONERS QUIET._ It's no use pretending 
that all conditioners are quiet, but the noise they produce can 
be kept to a minimum. Good workmanship is important in the installation, 
so if you're doing your own contracting, don't award the job on 
the basis of price alone.   Avoid attic placement directly above 
a bedroom. 
##

MOST RECREATION WORK calls for a good deal of pre-planning. 
This is particularly true in site selection. You must know before 
you start what the needs and objectives of your organtion are; you 
must have a list of requirements on where, how many, and what type sites 
are needed. With such a program you can make constructive selections 
of the best sites available.   Begin the examination of a site 
with a good map and aerial photos if possible. These are becoming more 
and more available through the work of counties and other government 
agencies. The new editions of topographic maps being made by the federal 
government are excellent for orienting yourself to the natural 
features of the site. These are inexpensive and available from the U& 
S& Geological Society, Washington 25, D& C&. In recent 
years many counties and the U& S& Forest Service have taken 
aerial photos which show features in detail and are very good for planning 
use. Most counties also have maps available from the county engineer 
showing roads and other features and from the assessor's office 
showing ownerships of land.   Inspect the site in the field during 
the time of the year when the area will be most heavily used for 
recreation. This gives you a better opportunity to get the feel of the 
climate conditions, the exposure to the sun and wind, the water interests, 
etcetera, which vary greatly with the seasons. It is usually helpful 
to make a sketch map in the field, showing the size and location 
of the features of interest and to take photographs at the site. These 
are a great aid for planning use back at the office. ##

FOR 
SITE PLANNING WORK, it is best to have a qualified and experienced 
park planner to carry through the study. However, there is also much 
to be gained by making use of the abilities of the local people who are 
available and interested in recreation. County judges, commissioners, 
engineers, assessors, and others who have lived in the area for a 
long time may have valuable knowledge regarding the site or opinions 
to offer from their varied professional experiences. A visit to the site 
by a group of several persons can usually bring out new ideas or verify 
opinions most helpful to the planning study of any recreation area.

How much study is required? This, of course, depends on 
the character of the site itself, the previous experience of the investigator, 
and the number of factors needed to arrive at a good decision. 
It is too easy for the inexperienced person to make a quick 
judgment 
of a few values of the area and base a decision on these alone. Usually 
there are more factors to good site planning than first impressions. 
A site may be a rundown slum or a desolate piece of desert in appearance 
today but have excellent potentials for the future with a little 
development or water. The same is true of areas which at first look 
good because of a few existing recreation features but may actually 
be poor areas to develop for general public use.   In looking for 
the best sites available that meet the requirements, you need information 
to compare the site with others. You need answers to four important 
questions.   @ What are the existing recreation features?

@ How well can the site be developed?   @ How useful 
will it be to the public?   @ Is this site available?

Check the quantity and quality of all of the recreation interests 
already existing at the site. Naturally, a park site with scenic 
views, a good lake, trees, and sand dunes, will attract more people 
than a nearby area with only trees and dunes. Quality is vitally important. 
Frontage on a body of clear, clean water will be vastly different 
from the same amount of frontage on polluted water. Some recreation 
features, such as scenic values and water interest, also have greater 
overall value than other interests.   One of the most desirable 
features for a park are beautiful views or scenery. It may be distant 
views of a valley or the mountains or natural features such as a 
small lake, colorful rock formations, or unusual trees. A site which 
overlooks a harbor or river may offer interest in the activities of boating 
traffic. An area on the coast may have relaxing views of the surf 
rolling in on a beach. A site may also be attractive just through 
the beauty of its trees and shrubs. Note extent of these interests and 
how available they will be for the public to enjoy.   Water interest 
is one of the most valuable factors you can find for a recreation 
site. Most park planners look to water frontage for basic park areas. 
This follows naturally since frontage on an ocean, stream, or lake 
provides scenic values and opportunities for the very popular recreation 
activities of bathing, fishing, boating, and other water sports. 
A body of water is usually the center of interest at parks which attract 
the greatest picnic and camping use. It also cools the air in summer 
and nourishes the trees and wild life.   The amount of water 
frontage, the quantity and quality of the water, and the recreation 
afforded by it are important. A restricted frontage may be too crowded 
an area for public use. The quantity of water flow may be critical; 
a stream or pond which is attractive in the springtime may become stagnant 
or dry in late summer. If the site is on a reservoir, the level 
of the water at various seasons as it affects recreation should be 
studied. Check the quality of the water. A stream which has all of 
its watershed within a national forest or other lands under good conservation 
practices is less likely to be affected by pollution than one 
passing through unrestricted logging or past an industrial area. Other 
factors, such as water temperature, depth of water, the fish life it 
supports, wave action, flooding, etcetera, will affect its recreation 
value. ##

OTHER NATURAL FEATURES which can be of high interest 
are the forests, canyons, mountains, deserts, seacoast, beaches, sand 
dunes, waterfalls, springs, etcetera with which the area is blessed. 
Just as the national and state parks place emphasis on features which 
are of national or state significance, counties should seek out these 
features which are distinctive of their area. Although the site may 
not contain the features themselves, there are often opportunities 
to include them as additional interest to the site. The route to the 
park may lead people past them or display views of them. A group of 
native trees or plants which are outstanding in a particular county can 
be featured at the site.   The fish, animals, and birds which 
may be found at the site are another interest. Fishing interest calls 
for a check of the species found, quantity and size, the season they 
are available, and the stocking program of the fish commission. Animals 
may be present at the site or provide hunting in nearby areas. The 
site may be on one of the major flyways of migratory birds or have its 
own resident bird life. Clams, crabs, and other marine life may add 
interest at coastal areas. ##

EACH AREA has its own historical 
interests with which much can be done. Park visitors are always 
eager to learn more about the area they are in. The historical sign 
tells its story, but nothing gets interest across as well as some of the 
original historical items or places themselves which still have the 
character of the period covered. Notice should be taken of unusual rock 
formations, deposits, or shapes of the earth's crust in your region. 
Those which tell a story of the earth's formation in each area 
can add geological interest to the recreation sites. An old shipwreck, 
a high dam, an old covered bridge, a place to find agates or other 
semi-precious stones or a place to pan gold, etcetera may be of interest. 
Some areas may provide archeological values such as ancient Indian 
village sites or hunting areas, caves, artifacts, etcetera. 
How well can the site be developed? Look at the physical features 
of the land to determine how desirable it is for use, what can be done 
to correct the faults, and what it will cost to make the area meet your 
needs in comparison to other sites. Many things need to be checked: 

#SIZE AND SHAPE#- The size of the area alone can be a determining 
factor. An area may be too small for the needs of the project. 
Areas should be large enough to include the attractions, have ample 
space for the use of facilities needed, and have room around the edges 
to protect the values of the area from encroachment by private developments. 
Acreage in excess of the minimum is good practice as recreation 
areas are never too large for the future and it is often more economical 
to operate one large area than several small ones.   Shape 
of the area is also related to the use attractions and needs of the 
development. A large picnic area or camping development is most efficient 
in shape as a square or rectangle several hundred feet in width 
in preference to a long narrow area less than one hundred feet wide. This 
is true because of savings in utility lines and the fact that your 
buildings have a useful radius equal in all directions. However, a 
narrow strip may be very practical for small developments, or to provide 
additional stream frontage for a fisherman's trail, or include 
scenic strips within the park unit. 

#ADJOINING AREAS#- The values 
of the site may be affected by the appearance of the adjoining lands, 
ownership and use of the land, and the utilities available there. For 
instance, a site adjoining other publicly owned lands, such as a national 
forest or a public road, may be desirable, whereas a site next 
to an industrial plant might not. The utilities available nearby may 
provide a savings in the cost of extending electricity or water to the 
site. 

#TOPOGRAPHY#- Topography is very important. Check the 
elevation of the ground, degree and direction of slopes, drainage, rock 
outcrops, topsoil types and quality, as well as subsoil. Nearly level 
areas are required for parking areas, beaches, camp areas, ballfields, 
etcetera. Determine how much topography limits useful area or what 
the costs of earth moving or grading might be. 

#WATER#- In addition 
to its recreation interests, water is needed for drinking, sanitation, 
and irrigation. The quantity and quality of water sources is 
often a big factor in site selection. The area may provide good springs 
or opportunities for a well or be near to municipal water lines. Figure 
the cost of providing water to the use areas. 

#PLANTS#- The 
existing plant growth calls for thorough checking. Look at the trees 
as to size and interest, the amount of shade they provide, how healthy 
they are, the problems of maintenance, fire hazards, wind throw, 
etcetera.   An area may have been partially logged and requires 
removal of stumps or clean up. Some shrubs may be of good landscaping 
value, other areas of brush may need to be cleared. The extent and location 
of open areas is noted. 

#EXPOSURE#- How much will wind, 
rain, sun, and temperature affect the use? An area sheltered from 
strong winds may be highly desirable for recreation use. The direction, 
velocity, and season of these winds should be noted as to just how 
they will affect the recreation use and your maintenance and operation 
of the area. Lack of rainfall and extreme temperatures may call for 
the development of shade and irrigation of a site to make it useable. 
Sometimes, you have a choice of exposure for sites where the topography 
or trees of the area will provide afternoon shade, morning sun, or 
whatever may be most desirable for the use intended. 

#IMPROVEMENTS#- 
Some areas may already have been improved and contain buildings, 
roads, utilities, cleared land, etcetera which may raise the cost of 
the site.

Your invitation to write about Serge Prokofieff to honor his 
70th Anniversary for the April issue of <Sovietskaya Muzyka> is 
accepted with pleasure, because I admire the music of Prokofieff; 
and with sober purpose, because the development of Prokofieff personifies, 
in many ways, the course of music in the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics.   The Serge Prokofieff whom we knew in the 
United States of America was gay, witty, mercurial, full of pranks 
and <bonheur>- and very capable as a professional musician. These 
qualities endeared him to both the musicians and the social-economic 
<haute monde> which supported the concert world of the post-World 
War /1, era. Prokofieff's outlook as a composer-pianist-conductor 
in America was, indeed, brilliant.   Prokofieff's <Classical> 
Symphony was hailed as an ingenious work from a naturally gifted 
and well-trained musician still in his twenties. To the Traditionalists, 
it was a brilliant satire on modernism; to the Neo-Classicists, 
it was a challenge to the pre-war world. What was it to Prokofieff? 
A tongue-in-cheek stylization of 18th-Century ideas; a trial 
balloon to test the aesthetic climate of the times; a brilliant <piece 
de resistance?> Certainly its composer was an ascending star 
on a new world horizon.   I heard the <Classical> Symphony 
for the first time when Koussevitzky conducted it in Paris in 1927. 
All musical Paris was there. Some musicians were enthusiastic, some 
skeptical. I myself was one of the skeptics (35 years ago). I remember 
Ernest Bloch in the foyer, shouting in his high-pitched voice: 
"**h it may be a <tour de force, mais mon Dieu,> can anyone take 
this music seriously"?   The answer is, "Yes"! Certainly, 
America took Prokofieff and his <Classical> Symphony seriously, 
and with a good deal of pleasure. His life-long friend, Serge 
Koussevitzky, gave unreservedly of his praise and brilliant performances 
in Boston, New York, and Washington, D& C&, to which 
he added broadcastings and recordings for the whole nation. Chicago was 
also a welcome host: there, in 1921, Prokofieff conducted the world 
premiere of the <Love for Three Oranges,> and played the first 
performance of his Third Piano Concerto. "Uncle Sam" was, indeed, 
a rich uncle to Prokofieff, in those opulent, post-war victory 
years of peace and prosperity, bold speculations and extravaganzas, enjoyment 
and pleasure: "The Golden Twenties". We attended the 
premieres of his concertos, symphonies, and suites; we studied, taught, 
and performed his piano sonatas, chamber music, gavottes, and marches; 
we bought his records and played them in our schools and universities. 
We unanimously agreed that Prokofieff had won his rights as 
a world citizen to the first ranks of Twentieth-Century Composers.

Nevertheless, Prokofieff was much influenced by Paris during 
the Twenties: the Paris which was the artistic center of the Western 
World- the social Paris to which Russian aristocracy migrated- 
the <chic> Paris which attracted the tourist dollars of rich 
America- the <avant-garde> Paris of Diaghileff, Stravinsky, Koussevitzky, 
Cocteau, Picasso- the <laissez-faire> Paris of Dadaism 
and ultramodern art- the Paris <sympathique> which took young 
composers to her bosom with such quick and easy enthusiasms.

So young Prokofieff was the darling of success: in his motherland; 
in the spacious hunting grounds of "Uncle Sam"; in the exciting 
salons of his lovely, brilliant Paris- mistress of gaiety- 
excess and abandon- world theatre of new-found freedoms in tone, color, 
dance, design, and thought.   Meanwhile, three great terrible 
forces were coagulating and crystallizing. In this world-wide conscription 
of men, minds, and machines, Prokofieff was recalled to his 
native land. The world exploded when Fascism challenged all concepts 
of peace and liberty, and the outraged, freedom-loving peoples of the 
Capitalist and Socialist worlds combined forces to stamp Fascist 
tyranny into cringing submission. After this holocaust, a changing world 
occupied the minds of men; a world beset with new boundaries, new 
treaties and governments, new goals and methods, and the age-old fears 
of aggression 
and subjugation- hunger and exposure.   In this 
changed world, Prokofieff settled to find himself, and to create 
for 
large national purpose. Here, this happy, roving son of good fortune 
proved that he could accept the disciplines of a new social-economic 
order fighting for its very existence and ideals in a truculent world. 
Here, Prokofieff became a workman in the vineyards of Socialism- 
producing music for the masses.   It is at this point in his life 
that the mature Prokofieff emerges. One might have expected that 
such a violent epoch of transition would have destroyed the creative 
flair of a composer, especially one whose works were so fluent and spontaneous.

But no: Prokofieff grew. He accepted the environment 
of his destiny- took root and grew to fulfill the stature of his 
early promise. By 1937 he had clarified his intentions to serve his 
people: "I have striven for clarity and melodious idiom, but at 
the same time I have by no means attempted to restrict myself to the 
accepted methods of harmony and melody. This is precisely what makes 
lucid, straightforward music so difficult to compose- the clarity must 
be new, not old". How right he was; how clearly he saw the cultural 
defection of experimentation as an escape for those who dare not 
or prefer not to face the discipline of modern traditionalism. And 
with what resource did Prokofieff back up his Credo of words- with 
torrents of powerful music. Compare the vast difference in scope and 
beauty between his neat and witty little <Classical> Symphony and 
his big, muscular, passionate, and eloquent Fifth Symphony; or the 
<Love for Three Oranges> (gay as it is) with the wonderful, imaginative, 
colorful, and subtle tenderness of the magnificent ballet, 
<The Stone Flower>. This masterpiece has gaiety, too, but it is 
the gaiety of dancing people: earthy, salty and humorous.   Of 
course, these works are not comparable, even though the same brain conceived 
them. The early works were conceived for a sophisticated, international 
audience; the later works were conceived to affirm a way 
of life for fellow citizens. However, in all of Prokofieff's music, 
young or mature, we find his profile- his "signature"- his 
craftsman's attitude. Prokofieff never forsakes his medium for the 
cause of experimentation <per se>. In orchestration, he stretches 
the limits of instrumentation with good judgment and a fine imagination 
for color. His sense for rhythmic variety and timing is impeccable. 
His creative development of melodic designs of Slavic dance tunes and 
love songs is captivating: witty, clever, adroit, and subtle. His 
counterpoint is pertinent, skillful, and rarely thick.   Also, 
it should be noted that the polytonal freedom of his melodies and harmonic 
modulations, the brilliant orchestrations, the adroitness for evading 
the heaviness of figured bass, the skill in florid counterpoint 
were not lost in his mature output, even in the spectacular historical 
dramas of the stage and cinema, where a large, dramatic canvas of sound 
was required. That Prokofieff's harmonies and forms sometimes 
seem professionally routine to our ears, may or may not indicate that 
he was less of an "original" than we prefer to believe. Need for 
novelty may be a symptom of cultural fatigue and instability. 
Prokofieff might well emerge as a cultural hero, who, by the force of 
his creative life, helped preserve the main stream of tradition, to which 
the surviving idioms of current experimentalism may be eventually 
added and integrated.   At this date, it seems probable that the 
name of Serge Prokofieff will appear in the archives of History, 
as an effective Traditionalist, who was fully aware of the lure and danger 
of experimentation, and used it as it served his purpose; yet 
was never caught up in it- never a slave to its academic dialectics. 
Certainly, it is the traditional clarity of his music which has endeared 
him to the Western World- not his experimentations.   So 
Prokofieff was able to cultivate his musical talents and harvest a 
rich reward from them. Nor can anyone be certain that Prokofieff would 
have done better, or even as well, under different circumstances. 
His fellow-countryman, Igor Stravinsky, certainly did not. Why did 
Prokofieff expand in stature and fecundity, while Stravinsky (who leaped 
into fame like a young giant) dwindled in stature and fruitfulness? 
I think the answer is to be found in Prokofieff's own words: 
"the clarity must be new, not old". When Prokofieff forged his 
new clarity of "lucid, straightforward music, so difficult to compose", 
he shaped his talents to his purpose.   When Stravinsky 
shaped his purpose to the shifting scenes of many cultures, many salons, 
many dialectics, many personalities, he tried to refashion himself 
into a stylist of many styles, determined by many disparate cultures. 
Prokofieff was guided in a consistent direction by the life of his own 
people- by the compass of their national ideas. But Stravinsky 
was swayed by the attitudes of whatever culture he was reflecting. In 
all his miscalculations, Stravinsky made the fatal historical blunder 
of presuming that he could transform other composers' inspirations- 
representing many peoples, time periods and styles- into his own 
music by warping the harmony, melody, or form, to verify his own experiments. 
Because of the authentic homogeneity of his early Nationalistic 
materials, and his flair for orchestrations- his brilliant <Petruchka,> 
his savage <Sacre du Printemps,> his incisive <Les Noces>- 
the world kept hoping that he could recapture the historical 
direction for which his native talents were predisposed.   But 
time is running out, and many of Stravinsky's admirers begin to fear 
that he will never find <terra firma>. His various aesthetic postulates 
remain as landmarks of a house divided against itself: Supra-Expressionism, 
Neo-Paganism, Neo-Classicism, Neo-Romanticism, 
Neo-Jazz, Neo-Ecclesiasticism, Neo-Popularism, and most recently, 
Post-Serialism- all competing with each other within one composer! 
What a patchwork of proclamations and renunciations! Meager 
and shabby by-products linger to haunt our memories of a once mighty 
protagonist; 
a maladroit reharmonization of our National Anthem (<The 
Star-Spangled Banner>); a poor attempt to write an idiomatic 
jazz concerto; a circus polka for elephants; his hopes that the tunes 
from his old music might be used for popular American commercial 
songs! Stravinsky, nearing the age of eighty, is like a lost and frantic 
bird, flitting from one abandoned nest to another, searching for 
a home.   How differently Prokofieff's life unfolded. Prokofieff 
was able to adjust his creative personality to a swiftly changing 
world without losing his particular force and direction. In the process, 
his native endowments were stretched, strengthened and disciplined 
to serve their human purpose.   With a large and circumspect 
20th-Century technique, he wove the materials of national heroes and 
events, national folklore and children's fairy tales- Slavic dances 
and love songs- into a solid musical literature which served his 
people well, and is providing much enjoyment to the World at large.

Of course, it must not be forgotten that in achieving this historical 
feat, Prokofieff had the vast resources of his people behind 
him; time and economic security; symphony orchestras, opera and ballet 
companies; choruses, chamber music ensembles; soloists; recordings; 
broadcastings; television; large and eager audiences. It 
must be conceded that his native land provided Prokofieff with many 
of the necessary conditions for great creative incentive: economic 
security and cultural opportunities, incisive idioms, social fermentations 
for a new national ideology- a sympathetic public and a large 
body of performers especially trained to fulfill his purpose.   Thus 
in Prokofieff the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics produced 
one of the great composers of the Twentieth Century. That his moods, 
even in his early years, are those of his people, does him honor, 
as his music honors those who inspired it. That he mastered every aspect 
of his medium according to his own great talents and contemporary 
judgments, is a good and solid symbol of his people under the tremendous 
pressures of proclaiming and practising the rigors of a new culture; 
and perhaps of even greater significance- his music is strong 20th-Century 
evidence of the effectiveness of Evolution, based on a broad 
Traditionalism for the creative art of music.

April 10 marked a memorable date in New York's musical history- 
indeed in the musical history of the entire eastern United States. 
On that date the Musicians Emergency Fund, organized to furnish 
employment for musicians unable to obtain engagements during the 
depression and to provide relief for older musicians who lost their fortunes 
in the stock market crash, observed its 30th anniversary. 
ROY MASON IS ESSENTIALLY A LANDSCAPE PAINTER whose style and direction 
has a kinship with the English watercolorists of the early nineteenth 
century, especially the beautifully patterned art of John Sell 
Cotman. And like this English master, Mason realizes his subjects 
in large, simplified masses which, though they seem effortless, are 
in reality the result of skilled design born of hard work and a thorough 
distillation of the natural form that inspired them.   As a 
boy Roy Mason began the long process of extracting the goodness of the 
out-of-doors, its tang of weather, its change of seasons, its variable 
moods. His father, a professional engraver and an amateur landscape 
painter, took his sons on numerous hunting expeditions, and imparted 
to them his knowledge and love of nature. Out of this background of 
hunting and fishing, it was only natural that Roy first painted subjects 
he knew best: hunters in the field, fishermen in the stream, ducks 
and geese on the wing- almost always against a vast backdrop of 
weather landscape. It is this subject matter that has brought Mason 
a large and enthusiastic following among sportsmen, but it is his exceptional 
performance with this motif that commends him to artists and 
discerning collectors.   Mason had to earn the privilege of devoting 
himself exclusively to painting. Like many others, he had to work 
hard, long hours in a struggling family business which, though it was 
allied to art of a kind- the design and production of engraved seals- 
bore no relation to the painting of pictures. But it did teach 
Roy the basic techniques of commercial art, and later, for twelve years, 
he and his sister Nina conducted an advertising art studio in Philadelphia. 
On the death of their father, they returned to their home 
in Batavia, New York. After more years of concentrated effort, Roy 
and his brother Max finally established a thriving family business 
at the old stand.   During all this time Roy continued to paint, 
first only on weekends, and then, as the family business permitted, 
for longer periods. Gradually he withdrew from the shop altogether, 
and for the past thirty years, he has worked independently as a painter, 
except for his continued hunting and fishing expeditions. But even 
on these, the palette often takes over while the shotgun cools off!

Except for a rich friendship with the painter, Chauncey Ryder 
who gave him the only professional instruction he ever had- and 
this was limited to a few lessons, though the two artists often went on 
painting trips together- Roy developed his art by himself. In the 
best tradition, he first taught himself to see, then to draw with accuracy 
and assurance, and then to paint. He worked in oil for years before 
beginning his work in watercolor, and his first public recognition 
and early honors, including his election to the Academy, were for 
his essays in the heavier medium. Gradually watercolor claimed his greater 
affection until today it has become his major, if not exclusive, 
technique.   It has been my privilege to paint with Roy Mason 
on numerous occasions, mostly in the vicinity of Batavia. More often 
than not I have found easy excuse to leave my own work and stand at 
a respectable distance where I could watch this man transform raw nature 
into a composed, not imitative, painting. What I have observed 
time and time again is a process of integration, integration that begins 
as abstract design and gradually takes on recognizable form; color 
patterns that are made to weave throughout the whole composition; 
and that over-all, amazing control of large washes which is the Mason 
stylemark. Finally come those little flicks of a rigger brush and the 
job is done. Inspiring- yes; instructive- maybe; duplicable- 
no!   But for the technical fact, we have the artist's 
own testimony:   "Of late years, I find that I like best to 
work out-of-doors. First I make preliminary watercolor sketches in 
quarter scale (approximately **f inches) in which I pay particular attention 
to the design principles of three simple values- the lightest 
light, the middle tone, and the darkest dark- by reducing the forms 
of my subject to these large patterns. If a human figure or wild life 
are to be part of the projected final picture, I try to place them 
in the initial sketch. For me, these will belong more completely to 
their surroundings if they are conceived in this early stage, though 
I freely admit that I do not hesitate to add or eliminate figures on 
the full sheet when it serves my final purpose.   "I am thoroughly 
convinced that most watercolors suffer because the artist expects 
nature will do his composing for him; as a result, such pictures are 
only a literal translation of what the artist finds in the scene before 
him. Just because a tree or other object appears in a certain spot 
is absolutely no reason to place it in the same position in the painting, 
unless the position serves the design of the whole composition. 
If the artist would study his work more thoroughly and move certain 
units in his design, often only slightly, finer pictures would result. 
Out of long experience I have found that incidental figures and other 
objects like trees, logs, and bushes can be traced from the original 
sketch and moved about in the major areas on the final sheet until they 
occupy the right position, which I call 'clicking'.   "Speed 
in painting a picture is valid only when it imparts spontaneity 
and crispness, but unless the artist has lots of experience so that 
he can control rapid execution, he would do well to take these first sketches 
and soberly reorder their design to achieve a unified composition.

"If I have seemed to emphasize the structure of the composition, 
I mean to project equal concern for color. Often, in working 
out-of-doors under all conditions of light and atmosphere, a particular 
passage that looked favorable in relation to the subject will be 
too bright, too dull, or too light, or too dark when viewed indoors in 
a mat. When this occurs, I make the change on the sketch or on the 
final watercolor- if I have been working on a full sheet in the field.

"When working from one of my sketches I square it up and 
project its linear form freehand to the watercolor sheet with charcoal. 
When this linear draft is completed, I dust it down to a faint 
image. From this point, I paint in as direct a manner as possible, by 
flowing on the washes with as pure a color mixture as I can manage. 
However, first 
I thoughtfully study my sketch for improvement of color and 
design along the lines I have described. Then I plan my attack: 
the parts I will finish first, the range of values, the accenting of 
minor details- all in all, mechanics of producing the finished job 
with a maximum of crispness. The longer I work, the more I am sure 
that for me, at least, a workmanlike method is important. Trial and 
error are better placed in the preliminary sketch than in hoping for miracles 
in the final painting.   "As for materials, I use the 
best available. I work on a watercolor easel in the field, and frequently 
resort to a large garden umbrella to protect my eyes from undue 
strain. In my studio I work at a tilt-top table, but leave the paper 
unfixed so that I can move it freely to control the washes. I have 
used a variety of heavy-weight hand-made papers, but prefer an English 
make, rough surface, in 400-pound weight. After selecting a sheet 
and inspecting it for flaws (even the best sometimes has foreign 'nubbins' 
on its surface), I sponge it thoroughly on both sides with 
clean, cold water. Then I dry the sheet under mild pressure so that 
it will lie flat as a board.   "In addition to the usual tools, 
I make constant use of cleansing tissue, not only to wipe my brushes, 
but to mop up certain areas, to soften edges, and to open up lights 
in dark washes. The great absorbency of this tissue and the fact that 
it is easier to control than a sponge makes it an ideal tool for the 
watercolorist. I also use a small electric hand-blower to dry large 
washes in the studio.

"My brushes are different from those used 
by most watercolorists, for I combine the sable and the bristle. The 
red sables are @8; two riggers, @6 and @10; and a very large, 
flat wash brush. The bristles are a Fitch @2 and a one-half 
inch brush shaved to a sharp chisel edge.   "My usual palette 
consists of top-quality colors: alizarin crimson, orange, raw sienna, 
raw umber, burnt sienna, sepia, cerulean blue, cobalt blue, French 
ultramarine blue, Winsor green, Hooker's green @2, cadmium yellow 
pale, yellow ochre, Payne's gray, charcoal gray, Davy's gray, 
and ivory black".   In analyzing the watercolors of Roy Mason, 
the first thing that comes to mind is their essential decorativeness, 
yet this word has such a varied connotation that it needs some elaboration 
here. True, a Mason watercolor is unmistakably a synthesis 
of nature rather than a detailed inventory. Unlike many decorative patterns 
that present a static flat convention, this artist's pictures 
are full of atmosphere and climate.   Long observation has taught 
Mason that most landscape can be reduced to three essential planes: 
a foreground in sharp focus- either a light area with dark accents 
or a dark one with lights; a middle distance often containing the 
major motif; and a background, usually a silhouetted form foiled against 
the sky. In following this general principle, Mason provides the 
observer with a natural eye progression from foreground to background, 
and the illusion of depth is instantly created.   When painting, 
Mason's physical eyes are half-closed, while his mind's eye 
is wide open, and this circumstance accounts in part for the impression 
he wishes to convey. He does not insist on telling all he knows about 
any given subject; rather his pictures invite the observer to draw 
on his memory, his imagination, his nostalgia. It is for this 
reason that Roy avoids selecting subjects that require specific recognition 
of place for their enjoyment. His pictures generalize, though 
they are inspired by a particular locale; they universalize in terms 
of weather, skies, earth, and people. By dealing with common landscape 
in an uncommon way, Roy Mason has found a particular niche in American 
landscape art. Living with his watercolors is a vicarious experience 
of seeing nature distilled through the eyes of a sensitive interpretor, 
a breath and breadth of the outdoor world to help man honor 
the Creator of it all.   The artist was born in Gilbert Mills, 
New York, in 1886, and until two years ago when he and his wife moved 
to California, he lived in western New York, in Batavia. When 
I looked up the actual date of his birth and found it to be March 
15th, I realized that Roy was born under the right zodiacal sign for 
a watercolorist: the water sign of Pisces (February 18-March 20). 
And how very often a water plane is featured in his landscapes, and 
how appropriate that he should appear in AMERICAN ARTIST again, 
in his natal month of March!   Over the years, beginning in 
1929, Mason has been awarded seventeen major prizes including two gold 
medals; two Ranger Fund purchase awards; the Joseph Pennell 
Memorial Medal; two American Watercolor Society prizes; the Blair 
Purchase Prize for watercolor, Art Institute of Chicago; 
and others in Buffalo, New York, Chautauqua, New Haven, Rochester, 
Rockport, and most recently, the $300 prize for a watercolor at 
the Laguna Beach Art Association,   He was elected to the National 
Academy of Design as an Associate in the oil class in 1931 
(after receiving his first Ranger Fund Purchase Prize at the Academy 
in 1930), and elevated to Academicianship in 1940. Other memberships 
include the American Watercolor Society, Philadelphia Water 
Color Club, Allied Artists of America, Audubon Artists, Baltimore 
Watercolor Society.

The Russian gymnasts beat the tar out of the American gymnasts 
in the 1960 Olympics for one reason- they were better. They were 
better trained, better looking, better built, better disciplined **h 
and something else- <they were better dancers>. Our athletes are 
only just beginning to learn that they must study dance. The Russians 
are all trained as dancers before they start to study gymnastics.

But why gymnastics at all? And is the sport really important? 
After all, we did pretty well in some other areas of the Olympics 
competition. But if it is important, what can we do to improve ourselves? 
It is more than just lack of dance training that is our problem, 
for just as gymnastics can learn from dance, dance has some very 
important things to learn from gymnastics.   Taking first things 
first, let's understand the sport called gymnastics. It is made up 
of tumbling, which might be said to start with a somersault, run through 
such stunts as headstands, handstands, cartwheels, backbends, and 
culminate in nearly impossible combinations of aerial flips and twists 
**h and apparatus work. The apparatus used by gymnasts was once a 
common sight in American gyms, but about 1930 it was dropped in favor 
of games. The parallel bars, horse, buck, springboard, horizontal bar, 
rings, and mats formerly in the school gyms were replaced by baseball, 
volleyball, basketball and football.   But the Russians use 
gymnastics as the first step in training for all other sports because 
it provides training in every basic quality except one, endurance. The 
gymnast must develop strength, flexibility, coordination, timing, 
rhythm, courage, discipline, persistence and the desire for perfection. 
In short, gymnastics uses every part of the body and requires a great 
deal of character as well. The addition of endurance training later, 
when the body is mature enough to benefit from it without danger of injury, 
provides that final quality that makes the top athlete, soldier 
or citizen.   Another reason gymnastic study is valuable is that 
it can be started very early in life. (An enterprising teacher or parent 
<could> start training a healthy child at the age of seven days. 
Most Europeans have been exercising newborn infants for centuries.) 
In most sports, as in most walks of life, the angels are on the side 
of those who begin young, and the Russian competitor of 16 has at 
least thirteen years of training behind him. The American is very lucky 
if he has three.   If a nation wished to get a head start in 
physical fitness over all other nations, it would start its kindergarten 
students on a program of gymnastics the day they entered and thus 
eliminate a large number of the problems that plague American schools. 
First of the problems attacked would be fatigue and emotional tension, 
since action relieves both. Oddly enough, it is proven that there 
would be less reading difficulty. Certainly there would be less anxiety, 
fewer accidents (it is the clumsy child who sustains the worst injuries), 
and higher scholastic averages, since alert children work better. 
Russia knows this, and that is why there were over 800,000 competing 
for places as candidates for the Olympic gymnastic team. Eighty 
thousand won top honors and a chance to try for the team itself. We 
could scarcely find eighty in our great land of over 180 million people.

And what has dancing to do with all this? A great deal. 
Russia's young gymnasts have studied dance before having the rigorous 
training on apparatus. Well-stretched, trained in posture and coordinated 
movement, and wedded to rhythm, they presented the audiences 
in 
Rome with one of the most beautiful sights ever seen at any Olympic 
contest. American audiences in particular learned two valuable lessons. 
They saw completely masculine and obviously virile men performing 
with incredible grace. They were further stripped of old wive's 
tales 
by seeing the slender, lovely Russian girls performing feats requiring 
tremendous strength **h and with not one bulging muscle.   President 
Kennedy has asked that we become a physically fit nation. If 
we wait until children are in junior high or high school, we will never 
manage it. To be fit, one has to start early with young children, 
and today the only person who really reaches such children is the teacher 
of dance. If the dance teachers of America make it their business 
to prepare their young charges for the gymnastics that must come 
some day if our schools are really responsible, we will be that much 
ahead. School teachers, all too unprepared for the job they must do, 
will need demonstrators. There should be youngsters who know how to do 
a headstand, and also how to help other children learn it. They should 
know simple exercises that could prepare less fortunate children for 
the sports we will demand be taught.   Dance teachers can respond 
to President Kennedy's request not only through their regular 
dance work, but also through the kind of basic gymnastic work that makes 
for strength and flexibility.   Very little in today's living 
provides the strength we need **h and nothing provides the flexibility. 
Dancers do have flexibility. They often fail, however, to develop 
real abdominal, back, chest, shoulder and arm strength. Ask any group 
of ballerinas to do ten push-ups or three chin-ups and the results, 
considering the amount of physical training they have had, will be 
very disappointing. Even the boys will not be outstanding in these areas. 
This isn't surprising when we consider that over 29 percent of 
the 11-year-old boys in America <cannot chin themselves once>, and 
that English school girls outdo them in almost every test (even dashes 
and endurance). The only area in which American boys hold their own 
is the baseball throw. 

#THE CHINNING BAR#

For arm and shoulder 
strength a chinning bar is recommended. It should be installed over 
a door that is in full view of everyone, and a chair should be placed 
under it, a little to one side. Those children who can chin themselves 
should be told to do <one> chin up each time they pass under it. 
Those who are too weak, should climb on the chair and, starting at the 
top of the chin, let themselves <slowly> down. When they can take 
ten seconds to accomplish the descent, they will have the strength to 
chin <up>. Parents should be informed about this system and encouraged 
to do the same with the whole family at home. 

#THE HORSE KICK# 

Arm, shoulder, chest, upper and lower back strength will be aided with 
the Horse Kick. Start on hands and feet. Keeping the hands in 
the starting position, run in place to a quick rhythm. After this has 
become easy, use slower and slower rhythms, kicking higher and higher. 
Follow this by crossing from one corner of the room to the other on 
all fours, kicking as high as possible. 

#PUSH-UPS#

Push-ups are 
essential, but few have the strength for them at first. Start on the 
knees in a large circle. Fall slowly forward onto the hands and let 
the body down to rest on the floor. Push back up and repeat. Do this 
exercise six times each class period. As strength improves start in 
a standing position with legs wide apart and upper body bent forward. 
Start by falling forward to a point close to the feet, and, as strength 
improves, fall farther and farther out. Try to push back to the stand 
position from the stretched position without any intermediate pushes 
from the hands. The push-up itself can be taught by starting at the 
<top> of the push-up with legs spread wide. Let the body down slowly, 
taking at least five seconds for the letting <down>. Five of these 
done daily for about a week will develop the strength for one push-<up>. 

#HANDSTANDS#

Handstands come after arms, chest and shoulders 
have developed at least a minimum of strength. Of course those 
who have developed more will find them easier. Start with the class 
standing in a circle, with weight on the right foot and the left extended 
a little way into the circle. At first each child should do a kick 
up by himself so that the teacher can determine those ready to work 
alone, and those who need help. Drop both hands to the floor and at the 
same time kick the right foot up in back. The left will follow at 
once. The right will land first, followed by the left. Return to the 
standing position. Care should be taken to see that the hands are placed 
on the floor before the kick starts and also that the landing foot 
is brought as close to the hands as possible. This will prevent flat 
falls and toe injuries. Bare feet are better for such work than any 
form of slipper. Eventually the class will be able to kick up high enough 
so that the teacher can catch the leading leg. The child should 
then bring both legs together overhead, point the toes and tighten the 
seat muscles. Be sure that the landing foot is brought close to the 
hands and that only one foot lands at a time. 

#BACKBENDS#

The backbend 
is of extreme importance to any form of free gymnastics, and, 
as with all acrobatics, the sooner begun the better the results. Have 
the class lie supine with knees apart and bent. Place flat palms on 
either side of the head a few inches away from the ears, <fingers pointing 
toward the shoulders>. Arch the back upwards to make a bridge. 
Be sure the head drops backward so that the child looks at the floor 
rather than toward the ceiling. As flexibility improves, the feet will 
move closer to the hands and the bridge rise higher. Later this can 
be combined with the handstand to provide a walkover. 

#BACK CIRCLE# 

To further increase back flexibility, work on the back circle. Have 
the class lie prone. Place the hands in front of the chest. Keep 
the legs straight and the toes pointed. Straighten the arms slowly, 
this arches the back. At the peak of the arch, tip the head back and 
bend the knees in an effort to touch toes to head. Improvement can be 
measured by the lessening distance between toes and head. 

#SOMERSAULTS# 

The last essential to the beginner's gymnastic program is the 
somersault, or forward roll. This used to be part of every child's 
bag of tricks, but few children can do it today; some are actually 
incapable of rolling forward and are completely confused when not sitting 
or standing upright. For most small children, learning a forward 
roll is simply a matter of copying another child who can. After it has 
been seen, have the child start on a mat on hands and knees (a thin, 
inexpensive mat is quite sufficient for anything that does not require 
falling). He places the hands on either side of the head, keeping 
the chin down on the chest. He then pushes his seat into the air and 
the teacher guides it over. One or two practice runs should be sufficient 
for solo. If, however, the child is weak, overweight, or afraid, 
more help will be needed. When the child raises his seat into the air, 
the teacher takes hold under both sides of the pelvis; then no matter 
what happens, the child's performance will be controlled. By lifting 
the seat upwards a little, the weight is taken off the neck and 
the back is kept rounded.   These are beginnings, but correctly 
learned they prepare for satisfying and exciting stunts that can be performed 
by a strong, flexible body (we are not talking of eccentric extremes). 
Even if gymnastics are not the ultimate goal, the good tumbler 
will be a better dancer, a better athlete, and a human being with 
a greater margin of safety in any activity.   It is very important 
for parents to understand that early training is imperative. And dancing 
school, so helpful in artistic and psychological development, also 
contributes to this essential early training- and can contribute 
even more.

EVERY taxpayer is well aware of the vast size of our annual 
defense 
budget and most of our readers also realize that a large portion 
of these expenditures go for military electronics. We have noted how 
some electronic techniques, developed for the defense effort, have evenutally 
been used in commerce and industry. The host of novel applications 
of electronics to medical problems is far more thrilling because 
of their implication in matters concerning our health and vitality.

When we consider the electronic industry potential for human betterment, 
the prospect is staggering. The author has recently studied 
the field of medical electronics and has been convinced that, in this 
area alone, the application of electronic equipment has enormous possibilities. 
The benefits electronics can bring to bio-medicine may be 
greater by far than any previous medical discovery. We use the term 
"bio-medicine" because of the close interrelation between biology 
and medical research.   Electronics has been applied to medicine 
for many years in the form of such familiar equipment as the x-ray machine, 
the electrocardiograph, and the diathermy machine. Recently many 
doctors have installed ultrasonic vibration machines for deep massage 
of bruises, 
contusions, and simple bursitis.   Commonly used electronic 
devices which are found in practically every hospital are closed-circuit 
~TV and audio systems for internal paging and instruction, 
along with radiation counters, timers, and similar devices.

In this article we will concentrate on the advances in the application 
of electronics in bio-medical research laboratories because this 
is where tomorrow's commonplace equipment originates. From the wealth 
of material and the wide variety of different electronic techniques 
perfected in the past few years we have selected a few examples which 
appear to be headed for use in the immediate future and which offer completely 
new tools in medical research. 

#ULTRAVIOLET MICROSCOPY# 

Many cells, bacteria, and other microorganisms are transparent to visible 
light and must be stained for microscopic investigation. This stain 
often disrupts the normal cell activity or else colors only the outside. 
A completely new insight into living cells and their structure 
will be possible by use of a new technique which replaces visible light 
with ultraviolet radiation and combines a microscope with a color-~TV 
system to view the results.   Fig& 1 is a simplified block 
diagram of the ultraviolet microscopy system developed at the Medical 
Electronics Center of Rockefeller Institute. By combining the 
talents of a medical man, Dr& Aterman, a biophysicist, Mr& 
Berkely, 
and an electronics expert, Dr& Zworykin, this novel technique 
has been developed which promises to open broad avenues to understanding 
life processes.   Three different wavelengths of ultraviolet 
radiation are selected by the variable filters placed in front of the 
three mercury xenon lights which serve as the ultraviolet sources. 
These wavelengths are reflected in sequence through the specimen by the 
rotating mirror; the specimen is magnified by the microscope. Instead 
of the observer's eye the image orthicon in the ~TV camera 
does the "looking". The microscope and orthicon are both selected 
to operate well into the ultraviolet spectrum, which means that all 
lenses must be quartz.   The video signal is amplified and then 
switched, in synchronism with the three ultraviolet light sources which 
are sequenced by the rotating mirror so that during one-twentieth of 
a second only one wavelength, corresponding to red, green, or blue, is 
seen. (Note: Because of light leakage from one ultraviolet source 
to another, the lights are switched by a commutator-like assembly rotated 
by a synchronous motor. This assembly also supplies a 20-~cps 
switching gate for the electronics circuitry.) This is the same system 
as was used in the field-sequential color-~TV system which preceded 
the present simultaneous system. Three separate amplifiers then 
drive a 21-inch tricolor tube. The result is a color picture of the 
specimen where the primary colors correspond to the three different ultraviolet 
wavelengths.   Many of the cells and microorganisms which 
are transparent to visible light, absorb or reflect the much shorter 
wavelengths of the ultraviolet spectrum. Different parts of these cells 
sometimes absorb or reflect different wavelengths so that it is often 
possible to see internal portions of cells in a different color. 
Where the microscope under visible light may show only vague shadows 
or nothing at all, ultraviolet illumination and subsequent translation 
into a color ~TV picture reveal a wealth of detail.   At the 
present time the research team which pioneered this new technique is 
primarily interested in advancing and perfecting it. 

#BREATHING- 
ELECTRONICALLY ANALYZED#

The medical title of "Lobar Ventilation 
in Man" by Drs& C& J& Martin and A& C& Young, covers 
a brief paper which is one part of a much larger effort to apply electronics 
to the study of the respiratory process. At the University 
of Washington Medical School, the electronics group has developed 
the "Respiratory Gas Analyzer" shown in Fig& 3. This unit, 
affectionately dubbed "The Monster", can be wheeled to any convenient 
location and provides a wealth of information about the patient's 
breathing.   In the lower center rack an 8-channel recorder 
indicates the percentage of carbon dioxide and nitrogen from the upper 
and lower lobes of one lung, the total volume of inhalation per breath, 
the flow of air from both lobes, and the pressure of the two lobes 
with respect to each other. Usually the patient breathes into a mouthpiece 
while walking a treadmill, standing still, or in some other medically 
significant position. From the resulting data the doctor can determine 
lung defects with hitherto unknown accuracy and detail. 

#HEART-MEASURING 
TECHNIQUES#

The original electrocardiograph primarily 
indicates irregularities in the heartbeat, but today's techniques allow 
exact measurements of the flow of blood through the aorta, dimensioning 
of the heart and its chambers, and a much more detailed study of 
each heartbeat. For many of these measurements the chest must be opened, 
but the blood vessels and the heart itself remain undisturbed.

A group of researchers at the University of Washington have given 
a paper which briefly outlines some of these techniques. One simple 
method of measuring the expansion of the heart is to tie a thin rubber 
tube, filled with mercury, around the heart and record the change 
in resistance as the tube is stretched. A balanced resistance bridge 
and a pen recorder are all the electronic instrumentation needed.

Sonar can be used to measure the thickness of the heart by placing 
small crystal transducers at opposite sides of the heart or blood vessel 
and exciting one with some pulsed ultrasonic energy. The travel 
time of sound in tissue is about 1500 meters per second thus it takes 
about 16 
|msec& to traverse 25 mm& of tissue. A sonar or radar-type 
of pulse generator and time-delay measuring system is required for 
body-tissue evaluation. In addition to the heart and aorta, successful 
measurements of liver and spleen have also been made by this technique. 
The Doppler effect, using ultrasonic signals, can be employed to 
measure the flow of blood without cutting into the blood vessel.

A still more sophisticated system has been devised for determining 
the effective power of the heart itself. It uses both an ultrasonic 
dimensioning arrangement of the heart and a catheter carrying a thermistor 
inserted into the bloodstream. The latter measures the heat carried 
away by the bloodstream as an indication of the velocity of the blood 
flow. It is also possible to utilize a pressure transducer, mounted 
at the end of a catheter which is inserted into the heart's left 
ventricle, to indicate the blood pressure in the heart itself. This pressure 
measurement may be made at the same time that the ultrasonic dimensioning 
measurement is made. A simplified version of the instrumentation 
for this procedure is shown in Fig& 2. Outputs of the two 
systems are measured by a pulse-timing circuit and a resistance bridge, 
followed by a simple analogue computer which feeds a multichannel recorder. 
From this doctors can read heart rate, change in diameter, pressure, 
and effective heart power. 

#RADIO-TRANSMITTER PILLS#

Several 
years ago headlines were made by a small radio transmitter capsule 
which could be swallowed by the patient and which would then radio internal 
pressure data to external receivers. This original capsule contained 
a battery and a transistor oscillator and was about 1 cm& in 
diameter. Battery life limited the use of this "pill" to about 8 
to 30 hours maximum.   A refinement of this technique has been described 
by Drs& Zworykin and Farrar and Mr& Berkely of the Medical 
Electronics Center of the Rockefeller Institute. In this 
novel arrangement the "pill" is much smaller and contains only a resonant 
circuit in which the capacitor is formed by a pressure-sensing 
transducer. As shown in Fig& 4, an external antenna is placed over 
or around the patient and excited 3000 times a second with short 400-kc& 
bursts. The energy received by the "pill" causes the resonant 
circuit to "ring" on after the burst and this "ringing" takes 
place at the resonant frequency of the "pill". These frequencies 
are amplified and detected by the ~FM receiver after each burst 
of transmitted energy and, after the "pill" has been calibrated, 
precise internal pressure indications can be obtained.   One of 
the advantages of this method is that the "pill" can remain in the 
patient for several days, permitting observation under natural conditions. 
Applications to organs other than the gastrointestinal tract are 
planned for future experiments. 

#SONAR IN MEDICAL RESEARCH#

One 
of the most gratifying applications of an important technique of submarine 
detection is in the exploration of the human body. Our readers 
are familiar with the principles of sonar where sound waves are sent 
out in water and the echoes then indicate submerged objects. Various 
methods of pulsing, scanning, and displaying these sound waves are used 
to detect submarines, map ocean floors, and even communicate under water. 
In medicine the frequencies are much higher, transducers and the 
sonar beams themselves are much smaller, and different scanning techniques 
may be used, but the principles involved are the same as in sonar.

Because the body contains so much liquid, transmission of 
ultrasonic signals proceeds fairly well in muscles and blood vessels. 
Bones and cartilage transmit poorly and tend to reflect the ultrasonic 
signals. Based on this phenomenon, a number of investigators have used 
this method to "look through" human organs. A good example of 
the results obtainable with ultrasonic radiation is contained in papers 
presented by Dr& G& Baum who has explored the human eye. He 
can diagnose detachment of the retina where conventional methods indicate 
blindness due to glaucoma. The method used to scan the eye ultrasonically 
is illustrated in Fig& 6. The transducer is coupled to the 
body through a water bath, not shown. For display, Dr& Baum uses 
a portion of an **f, an airborne radar indicator, and then photographs 
the screen to obtain a permanent record.   A typical "sonogram" 
of a human eye, together with a description of the anatomical 
parts, is shown in Fig& 5. The frequency used for these experiments 
is 15 mc& and the transducer is a specially cut crystal with an epoxy 
lens capable of providing beam diameters smaller than one millimeter. 
The transducer itself moves the beam in a sector scan, just like 
a radar antenna, while the entire transducer structure is moved over a 
90-degree arc in front of the eye to "look into" all corners. 
The total 
picture is only seen by the camera which integrates the many sector 
scans over the entire 90-degree rotation period.   Drs& 
Howry 
and Holmes at the University of Colorado Medical School have applied 
the same sonar technique to other areas of soft tissue and have 
obtained extremely good results. By submerging the patient in a tub 
and rotating the transducer while the scanning goes on, they have been 
able to get cross-section views of the neck, as shown in Fig& 7, as 
well as many other hitherto impossible insights. As mentioned before, 
bone reflects the sound energy and in Fig& 7 the portion of the 
spine shows as the black area in the center. Arteries and veins are apparent 
by their black, blood-filled centers and the surrounding white 
walls.   A cross-section of a normal lower human leg is shown in 
Fig& 8 with the various parts labeled.

OERSTED'S boyhood represented a minimal chance of either 
attaining greatness or serving his people so well and over so long a 
span of life. He was born in the small Danish town of Rudkoebing on 
the island of Langeland in the south-central part of Denmark on August 
14, 1777. His father Soeren was the village apothecary whose slender 
income made it difficult to feed his family, let alone educate 
them in a town without even a school. The two older boys, Hans and Anders, 
his junior by a year, therefore went daily to the home of a 
warm 
and friendly wigmaker nearby for instruction in German; his wife 
taught the two boys to read and write Danish. Other brothers later joined 
them for instruction with Oldenburg, the wigmaker, and also arithmetic 
was added to Bible reading, German, and Danish in the informal 
curriculum. Oldenburg's contributions were soon exhausted and the 
boys had to turn to a wider circle of the town's learned, such as 
the pastor, to supplement the simple teaching. From the town surveyor, 
Hans learned drawing and mathematics and, from a university student, 
some academic subjects. The mayor of the town taught them English 
and French. Whatever Hans or Anders learned separately they passed 
on to each other; they read every book that they could borrow in the 
village. At 12, Hans was sufficiently mature to help his father in 
the apothecary shop, which helped stimulate his interest in medicine 
and science. His earlier love for literature and history remained with 
him for his entire life.   In 1793 the brothers decided to enter 
the University of Copenhagen (founded in 1479) and the following 
spring found them at the university preparing to matriculate for the 
autumn session. While Hans devoted himself to the sciences of medicine, 
physics, and astronomy, his brother studied law. The brothers continued 
to help each other during their studies, sharing a joint purse, 
lodging together in the dormitory and dining together at the home of 
their aunt. They supplemented their income by small government assistance, 
by tutoring and economizing wherever they could. So impressive 
were those serious years of study at the university that Hans later 
wrote, "to be perfectly free, the young man must revel in the great 
kingdom of thought and imagination; there is a struggle there, in which, 
if he falls, it is easy for him to rise again, there is freedom 
of utterance there, which draws after it no irreparable consequences on 
society **h. I lived in this onward-driving contest where each day 
overcame a new difficulty, gained a new truth, or banished a previous 
error". He openly proclaimed his pleasure in lecturing and writing 
about science. In this third year at the university, Hans, in 1797, 
was awarded the first important token of recognition, a gold medal for 
his essay on "Limits of Poetry and Prose". He completed his training 
in pharmacy also, taking his degree with high honors in 1797, 
and in 1799 was awarded the degree of Doctor of Philosophy along with 
a prize for an essay in medicine. He proposed a fresh theory of alkalis 
which later was accepted in chemical practices. 

#FERMENT OF SCIENTIFIC 
ACTIVITY#

HAN'S STUDENT DAYS were at a time when Europe 
was in a new intellectual ferment following the revolutions in America 
and in France, Germany and Italy were rising from divisive nationalisms 
and a strong wave of intellectual awareness was sweeping the 
Continent.   The new century opened with Oersted beginning 
his professional career in charge of an apothecary shop in Copenhagen 
and as lecturer at the university. He was stirred by the announcement 
of Volta's 
discovery of chemical electricity and he immediately applied 
the voltaic pile to experiments with acids and alkalis. The following 
year he devoted to the customary "Wanderjahr", traveling in 
Germany, France, and the Netherlands, meeting the philosophers Schelling, 
Fichte, and Tieck. He also met Count Rumford (born Benjamin 
Thompson in Woburn, Mass&) who was then serving the Elector 
of Bavaria, and the physicist Ritter; these were Oersted's main 
contacts in science.   From Go^ttingen (1801) where he stayed 
for 10 days, he wrote, "The first question asked everywhere is 
about galvanism. As everybody is curious to see the battery of glass 
tubes I have invented, I have had quite a small one made here of 
four glass 
tubes (in Copenhagen I used 30) and intend to carry it with me". 
Oersted joined Ritter at Jena and stayed with him for 3 weeks, continuing 
their correspondence after he left. With Ritter he was exposed 
to the fantastic profusion of ideas that stormed through his host's 
fertile but disorganized mind. Oersted remodeled Ritter's notes 
into an essay in French which was submitted to the Institut de France 
for its annual prize of 3,000 francs. The sound discoveries of 
this quixotic genius were so diluted by those of fantasy that the prize 
was never awarded to him. In May, 1803, Ritter, in another flight 
of fancy, wrote to Oersted a letter that contained a remarkable prophecy. 
He related events on earth to periodic celestial phenomena and 
indicated that the years of maximum inclination of the ecliptic coincided 
with the years of important electrical discoveries. Thus, 1745 corresponded 
to the invention of the "Leiden" jar by Kleist, 1764 
that of the electrophorus by Wilcke, 1782 produced the condenser of 
Volta, and 1801 the voltaic pile. Ritter proceeded, "You now emerge 
into a new epoch in which late in the year 1819 or 1820, you will have 
to reckon. This we might well witness". Ritter died in 1810 and 
Oersted not only lived to see the event occur but was the author of 
it.   In 1803 Oersted returned to Copenhagen and applied for 
the university's chair in physics but was rejected because he was probably 
considered more a philosopher than a physicist. However, he continued 
experimenting and lecturing, publishing the results of his experiments 
in German and Danish periodicals. In 1806 his ambition was 
realized and he became professor of physics at the Copenhagen University, 
though not realizing full professorship (ordinarius) until 1817.

During Oersted's attendance at the university, it was poorly 
equipped with physical apparatus for experimenting in the sciences. 
He was, however, fortunate in his contact with Prof& J& G& 
L& Manthey (1769-1842), teacher of chemistry, who, in addition to 
his academic chair, was 
also proprietor of the "Lion Pharmacy" in 
Copenhagen where Oersted assisted him. Manthey maintained a valuable 
collection of physical and chemical apparatus which was at Oersted's 
disposal during and after his graduation. In 1800, Manthey went 
abroad and Oersted was appointed manager of the Lion Pharmacy. In 
February 1801, Oersted did manage to experiment with physical apparatus 
and reported experiments made with a voltaic battery of 600 plates 
of zinc and silver and of later experiments with a battery of 60 plates 
of zinc and lead. In the following year, 1803, Oersted, simultaneously 
with Davy, discovered that acids increased the strength of a voltaic 
battery more than did salts. Eager as he was to pursue this promising 
line, he was so loaded down with the management of the pharmacy 
and lectures in the medical and pharmaceutical faculties at the university 
that he could devote only Sunday afternoons to "galvanizing".

He assumed his academic career with the same intensity and 
thoroughness that had marked every step in his rise from boyhood. The 
university was the only one in Denmark and the status of professor 
represented the upper social level. His broad interest in literary, political, 
and philosophical movements opened many doors to him. His friends 
were numerous and their ties to him were strong.   The years 
1812 and 1813 saw him in Germany and France again, but on this 
visit to Berlin he did not seek out the philosophers as he had on his 
first journey. In Berlin he published his views of the chemical laws 
of nature in German and this was issued in French translation (Paris, 
1813) under the title <Recherches sur l'identite des forces chimiques 
et electriques,> a work held in very high esteem by the new 
generation 
of research chemists. His interest in finding a relationship between 
voltaic electricity and magnetism is here first indicated. Chapter 
/8, is entitled "On Magnetism" and in it are included such 
remarks as, "One has always been tempted to compare the magnetic forces 
with the electrical forces. The great resemblance between electrical 
and magnetic attractions and repulsions and the similarity of their 
laws necessarily would bring about this comparison. It is true, that 
nothing has been found comparable with electricity by communication; 
but the phenomena observed had such a degree of analogy to those 
depending on electrical distribution that one could not find the slightest 
difference **h. The form of galvanic activity is halfway between 
the magnetic form and the electrical form. There, forces are more latent 
than in electricity, and less than in magnetism **h. But in such 
an important question, we would be satisfied if the judgment were that 
the principal objection to the identity of forces which produce electricity 
and magnetism were only a difficulty, and not a thing which is 
contrary to it **h. One could also add to these analogies that steel 
loses its magnetism by heat, which proves that steel becomes a better 
conductor through a rise in temperature, just as electrical bodies do. 
It is also found that magnetism exists in all bodies of nature, as 
proven by Bruckmann and Coulomb. By that, one feels that magnetic 
forces are as general as electrical forces. An attempt should be made 
to see if electricity, in its most latent stage, has any action on the 
magnet as such". His plan and intent were clearly charted. 
Oersted returned in 1814 and resumed an active part in university and 
political discussions. In one debate he supported the freedom of judgment 
as opposed to dogma, in another he held that the practice of science 
was in fact an act of religious worship. He continued as a popular 
lecturer. He devised a detonating fuse in which a short wire was 
caused to glow by an electric current.   In 1819 under royal command 
he undertook a very successful geological expedition to Bornholm, 
one of the Danish islands, being one of three scientists in the expedition. 
It was with the assistance of one of the members of this expedition, 
Lauritz Esmarch, that Oersted succeeded in producing light 
by creating an electric discharge in mercury vapor through which an electric 
current was made to flow. Together they also developed a new 
form of voltaic cell in which the wooden trough was replaced by one of 
copper, thereby producing stronger currents. Esmarch was among those 
who witnessed Oersted's first demonstration of his discovery. 

#DISCOVERY 
OF ELECTROMAGNETISM#

THE ASSOCIATION between electric 
(both electrostatic and voltaic) forces and magnetic forces had been 
recognized by investigators for many decades. Electrical literature 
contained numerous references to lightning that had magnetized iron and 
had altered the polarity of compass needles. In the late 1700's 
Beccaria and van Marum, among others, had magnetized iron by sending 
an electrostatic charge through it. Beccaria had almost stumbled on 
a lead to the relationship between electricity and magnetism when a discharge 
from a Leyden jar was sent <transversally> through a piece 
of watch-spring steel making its ends magnetic. The resulting magnetic 
effect proved stronger than when the discharge was made lengthwise. 
The experiments of Romagnosi and others have already been noted but 
no one had determined the cause-and-effect relationship between these 
two primary forces. Oersted's own earlier experiments were unimpressive, 
possibly because he had, like other experimenters, laid the conducting 
wire across the compass needle instead of parallel with it.

The sequence of events leading to his important discovery still remains 
ambiguous but it seems that one of the advanced students at the 
university related that the first direct event that led to the publication 
of Oersted's discovery occurred during a private lecture made 
before a group of other advanced students in the spring of 1820. At 
this lecture Oersted happened to place the conducting wire over and parallel 
to a magnetic needle. 
Knowing <specifically> what the many feed additives can do and 
how and when to feed them can make a highly competitive business more 
profitable for beef, dairy, and sheep men.   The <target chart> 
quickly and briefly tells you which additives do what. All the additives 
listed here are sanctioned for use by the Food and Drug Administration 
of the federal government. All comments concerning effectiveness 
and use of drugs have been carefully reviewed by a veterinary 
medical officer with ~FDA.   This article assumes that the 
rations you are feeding your beef, dairy cattle, and sheep are adequately 
balanced with protein, vitamins, and minerals.   The drug's 
chemical name is listed, since most states require feed processors 
to use this name instead of the trade name on the feed tag. In some instances, 
the trade name is shown in parentheses following the chemical 
name. This indicates that this drug is being marketed under one trade 
name only or state regulatory organizations have approved its use on 
the feed tag. 

#HERE'S YOUR FEED ADDITIVE GUIDE FOR RUMINANTS:# 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Oxytetracycline hydrochloride (Terramycin) 

_WHAT IT DOES:_ Increases rate of gain and improves 
feed efficiency, aids in the prevention or treatment (depending on level 
fed) of the early stages of shipping fever, prevents or treats bacterial 
diarrhea, and aids in reducing incidence of bloat and liver abscesses. 
Milk production may be increased by the anti-infective properties 
of this drug. _HOW TO FEED: BEEF CATTLE (FINISHING RATION)_- 
To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency, feed 75 milligrams 
per head in daily supplement. _CALVES_- To increase rate 
of gain and improve feed efficiency, feed 10 to 25 grams per ton of complete 
feed. As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea (scours), 
feed 50 grams per ton of complete feed. For the treatment of bacterial 
scours, feed 100-200 grams. For prevention or treatment of bacterial 
scours, feed 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily. 

_BEEF AND DAIRY_- As an aid in reducing incidence and severity 
of bloat, provide 75 milligrams of oxytetracycline hydrochloride per 
animal daily. To reduce incidence of liver abscesses, supply 75 milligrams 
of oxytetracycline activity per head daily. To prevent or treat 
bacterial diarrhea, furnish 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight 
daily. For the prevention or treatment of the early stages of shipping 
fever complex, increase feeding level to 0.5 to 2 grams per head 
per day. For the best results, feed this level to cattle 3 to 5 days 
preceding shipment and/or 3 to 5 days following their arrival in your 
feed lot. For treatment of shipping fever, this level should be fed 
at the onset of the disease symptoms until symptoms disappear. _SHEEP_- 
To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency, feed 10 
to 20 grams per ton. As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea 
(scours), feed 50 grams per ton. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Chlortetracycline 
(Aureomycin) _WHAT IT DOES:_ Increases gains, 
improves feed efficiency, and reduces losses from bacterial infections 
listed under "how to feed" section. Milk production may be increased 
by the anti-infective properties of this drug. _HOW TO FEED: 
BEEF_- Not less than 70 milligrams of Aureomycin per head daily 
to aid in the prevention of liver abscesses in feed-lot beef cattle. 
Prevention of bacterial pneumonia, shipping fever, as an aid in reduction 
of losses due to respiratory infections (infectious rhinotracheitis- 
shipping fever complex). Feed at level of 70 milligrams per head 
per day. Treatment of the above diseases: 350 milligrams per head 
per day for 30 days only. For prevention of these diseases during periods 
of stress such as shipping, excessive handling, vaccination, extreme 
weather conditions: 350 milligrams per head per day for 30 days 
only. As an aid in reducing bacterial diarrhea and preventing foot 
rot, feed not less than 0.1 milligram per pound of body weight daily. 
To aid in the prevention of anaplasmosis, feed not less than 0.5 milligram 
per pound of body weight daily. _DAIRY_- For calves, feed 
not less than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton complete feed as an aid 
in preventing bacterial diarrhea and foot rot. For cows, feed providing 
an intake of 0.1 milligram of Aureomycin per pound of body weight 
daily aids in the reduction of bacterial diarrhea, in the prevention 
of foot rot, and in the reduction of losses due to respiratory infection 
(infectious rhinotracheitis- shipping fever complex). _SHEEP_- 
As an aid in reducing losses due to enterotoxemia (overeating 
disease), 
feed a complete ration containing not less than 20 and not more 
than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton. To reduce vibrionic abortion in 
breeding sheep, feed 80 milligrams per head daily. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL 
NAME:#

Dynafac _WHAT IT DOES:_ An aid in getting cattle 
and sheep on full feed, in improving feed conversion and growth, in reducing 
bloat and founder, and in controlling scours. _HOW TO FEED: 
BEEF AND DAIRY CALVES_- 0.2 gram Dynafac per head daily (1 gram 
of premix per head daily) for promoting growth, feed conversion, bloom, 
and full feed earlier. _FEEDER CATTLE_- .0044% Dynafac in 
a complete ration or 0.3 to 0.4 gram per head per day (200 grams of premix 
per ton complete ration or equivalent. Animals consuming 20 pounds 
feed daily receive 2 grams Dynafac). Aids in minimizing the occurrence 
of feed-lot bloat due to high consumption of concentrates. _SHEEP 
AND LAMBS_- 1.0 gram premix per head per day for promoting growth, 
feed conversion, and getting lambs on full feed earlier. 

#DRUG'S 
CHEMICAL NAME:#

Diethylstilbestrol _WHAT IT DOES:_ Increases 
rate of gain and improves feed efficiency. _HOW TO FEED: BEEF 
CATTLE_- 10 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per head daily. 
This may be incorporated in complete feeds at the level of 0.4 milligram 
of diethylstilbestrol per pound of ration- assuming animal consumes 
about 25 pounds daily. The drug is also incorporated in supplements. 
These are to be fed at a rate to provide 10 milligrams ~DES 
per head daily. The recommended 10-milligram daily intake level should 
be maintained. It may be incorporated into cattle creep feeds in levels 
from 1.0 to 1.5 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per pound of feed. 

_SHEEP FATTENING RATIONS_- The recommended level for sheep is 
2 milligrams daily, and this level should be maintained. Include supplement 
containing 0.4 to 2 milligrams per pound to provide 2 milligrams 
per head per day. _CAUTION:_ Discontinue medication 48 hours 
before slaughter. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Hydroxazine hydrochloride 

_WHAT IT DOES:_ Improves growth rate and feed efficiency 
of fattening beef animals. _HOW TO FEED:_ At the rate of 2-1/2 
milligrams per head per day. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Iodinated 
casein _WHAT IT DOES:_ Drug elevates the metabolic rate of 
the cow. Fed to dairy cattle to increase milk production and butterfat 
percentage. _HOW TO FEED:_ 1 to 1-1/2 grams per 100 pounds of 
body weight. _CAUTION:_ Cows receiving drug may not be officially 
tested under breed registry testing programs. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL 
NAME:#

Bacterial and fungal enzymes. (These enzyme preparations 
appear on today's feed tags as fermentation extracts of Bacillus subtilis, 
Apergillus orzae, Niger, and Flavus.) _WHAT IT DOES:_ 
Improves utilization of low-moisture corn (less than 14%). _HOW 
TO FEED:_ Greatest benefits have been associated with feeding low-moisture 
corn in beef-feeding programs. Several firms are merchandising 
enzyme preparation through feed manufacturers. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL 
NAME:#

Ronnel _WHAT IT DOES:_ Effectively controls cattle 
grubs which damage hides and can reduce gains. _HOW TO FEED:_ 
Drug 
is added to either a protein or mineral supplement for a period of 
7 or 14 days. Follow manufacturer's recommendation carefully. _CAUTION:_ 
Do not feed to dairy cows and do not feed within 60 days 
of slaughter. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Methyl polysiloxanes _WHAT 
IT DOES:_ Aids in preventing foamy bloat. _HOW TO FEED:_ 
For prevention of foamy bloat, feed at a rate of 0.5 to 2 milligrams 
per head per day in mineral or salt or feed. For treatment of bloat, 
drug is fed at a higher level. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Phenothiazine 

_WHAT IT DOES:_ Reduces losses from stomach, hookworm, 
and nodular worms by interfering with reproduction of the female 
worm by reducing the number of eggs laid and essentially rendering all 
laid eggs sterile. Also, aids in the control of horn flies by preventing 
them from hatching in the droppings. _HOW TO FEED:_ Treat 
cattle with 10 grams per 100 pounds body weight with a maximum of 70 
grams per animal. Then, for the above parasites, feed continuously at 
these levels: Feeder cattle- 2-5 grams of phenothiazine daily; 
beef calves- .5 to 1.5 grams daily depending on weight of animal. Treat 
lambs with 12 grams per head for lambs weighing up to 50 pounds; 
treat lambs over 50 pounds and adults with 24 grams per animal. For 
continuous control, feed 1 part phenothiazine to 9 parts minerals or 
salts. To include in feed, add phenothiazine to supply 0.5 to 1 gram 
per sheep daily. _CAUTION:_ Continuous administration is not recommended 
for lactating cows. Following single-dose treatment, milk 
should be discarded for 4 days following treatment. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL 
NAME:#

Procaine penicillin _WHAT IT DOES:_ Aids in reducing 
the incidence and severity of bloat in beef or dairy cattle on legume 
pasture. _HOW TO FEED:_ Feed 75,000 units or 75 milligrams 
per head daily. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Sodium propionate _WHAT 
IT DOES:_ For the prevention or treatment of acetonemia (ketosis) 
in dairy cows. _HOW TO FEED:_ For the prevention of acetonemia 
(ketosis) feed 1/4 pound per day beginning at calving and continuing 
for 6 weeks. For the treatment of ketosis feed 1/4 to 1/2 pound 
per day for 10 days. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Sulfaquinoxaline 

_WHAT IT DOES:_ Helps control shipping dysentery and coccidiosis 
in lambs. _HOW TO FEED: LAMBS_- feed at .05% level for 
2 or 3 days. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Dried rumen bacteria _WHAT 
IT DOES:_ Stimulates rumen activity. _HOW TO FEED:_ Incorporated 
in commercially prepared feed at proper levels. 

#DRUG'S 
CHEMICAL NAME:#

Calcium and sodium lactate _WHAT IT DOES:_ 
Prevents and treats acetonemia (ketosis) in dairy cows. _HOW TO FEED:_ 
For prevention of ketosis, feed 1/4 pound per head daily for 
6 weeks commencing at calving time. For treatment of ketosis, feed 
1/2 pound daily until symptoms disappear. Then, feed preventive dose 
until 6 weeks after calving. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Promazine 
hydrochloride _WHAT IT DOES:_ A tranquilizer fed to cattle (other 
than lactating dairy cows) prior to their being subjected to stress 
conditions such as vaccinating, shipping, weaning calves, and excessive 
handling. _HOW TO FEED:_ Not less than .75 milligram but not 
more than 1.25 milligrams of additive per pound of body weight. _CAUTION:_ 
Additive should not be fed 72 hours before animals are 
slaughtered. 
There are three principal feed bunk types for dairy and beef cattle: 
(1) Fence-line bunks- cattle eat from one side while feed 
is put in from the opposite side of the fence by self-unloading wagons; 
(2) Mechanized bunks- they sit within the feed lot, are filled 
by a mechanical conveyor above feeding surface; (3) Special bunks- 
as discussed here, they permit cattle to eat from all sides. Feed is 
put in with an elevator.   Several materials or combinations of 
materials can be used to construct a satisfactory feed bunk. The selection 
of materials depends on skills of available labor for installation, 
cost of materials available locally, and your own preference. No 
one material is best for all situations. Selecting bunks by economic 
comparison is usually an individual problem. 

#FENCE-LINE FEEDING.# 

Animals eat only from one side, so the fence-line bunk must be twice 
as long as the mechanical bunk. These bunks also serve as a fence, 
so part of the additional cost must be attributed to the fence. Because 
of their location, on the edge of the feed lot, fence-line bunks are 
not in the way of mechanical manure removal. Filling these bunks by 
the same self-unloading wagons used to fill silos spreads cost of the 
wagons over more time and operations.   All-weather roads must 
be provided next to the feeding floor so access will be possible all 
year. This will be a problem in areas of heavy snowfall. 
MARKETING in the new decade will be no picnic- for the sixties 
will present possibly the most intense competitive activity that you 
have experienced in the last 20-25 yr&.   Why? Companies of 
all types have made great advances in production capabilities and efficiencies- 
in modern equipment and new processes, enlarged ~R+D 
facilities, faster new product development. Many companies have upgraded 
their sales manpower and tested new selling, distribution, and promotion 
techniques to gain a bigger competitive edge.   Given this 
kind of business climate, what competitive marketing problems will your 
company face in the next 10 yr&? Based on our experience with 
clients, we see 14 major problems which fall into three broad groups- 
the market place itself, marketing methods, and marketing management. 

#1. PROBLEMS IN THE MARKET#

_@ GREATER PRICE-CONSCIOUSNESS._ 
There has been an intensification of price-consciousness in recent 
years; there is every indication it will continue. Frequently, wittingly 
or unwittingly, price-consciousness has been fostered by manufacturers, 
distributors, and dealers. Despite generally good levels of 
income, we see greater price pressures than ever before- traveling 
back along the chain from consumer to distributor to manufacturer.

Here are some key areas to examine to make sure your pricing strategy 
will be on target:   Has the probable price situation in 
your field been forecast as a basis for future planning? Have cost 
studies been made of every phase of your operation to determine what might 
be done if things get worse? Have you actually checked out (not 
just mentally tested) different selling approaches designed to counter 
the price competition problem? _@ INCREASED CUSTOMER SOPHISTICATION._ 
Average consumer is becoming more sophisticated regarding 
product and advertising claims, partly because of widespread criticism 
of such assertions. This problem can force a change in marketing approach 
in many kinds of businesses. Have you examined this problem of 
increasing consumer sophistication from the standpoint of your own company? 
_@ GREATER DEMAND FOR SERVICES._ Need for service is here 
to stay- and the problem is going to be tougher to solve in the 
sixties. There are two reasons for this. First, most products tend to 
become more complex. Second, in a competitive market, the customer 
feels his weight and throws it around.   {Providing good customer 
service requires as thorough a marketing and general management planning 
job as the original selling of the product}. Too often it is 
thought of at the last moment of new product introduction.   Good 
service starts with product design and planning: Many products seem 
to be designed for a production economy, not for a service one. Proper 
follow-through requires training your own sales organization, and 
your distributor organizations, not only in the techniques but also 
in good customer relations.   Have you assessed the importance of 
service and given it proper attention? _@ WIDER DISCRETIONARY 
CHOICES FOR CUSTOMERS._ In spending his money today, the consumer is 
pulled in many directions. To the manufacturer of the more convenient-type 
product- the purchase of which can be switched, delayed, or 
put off entirely- the implications are important. Your competition 
is now proportionately greater- you are competing not only against manufacturers 
in the same field but also against a vast array of manufacturers 
of other appealing consumer products.   Many industry trade 
associations are developing campaigns to protect or enhance the share 
of the consumer's dollar being spent on their particular products. 
Has your company thought through its strategy in this whole "discretionary 
buying" area? _@ GEOGRAPHIC SHIFT OF CUSTOMERS._ 
The trends have been in evidence for many years- population shifts 
to the Southwest and Far West, and from city to suburbs. These shifts 
will continue in the next 10 yr&. Have you considered the implications 
of continuing geographic shifts in terms of sales force allocation, 
strength of distributor organizations, and even plant location? 
_@ MARKET CONCENTRATION AND DISTRIBUTION IN FEWER ACCOUNTS._ We 
have already witnessed great changes through mergers and acquisitions 
in the food industry- at both the manufacturing and retail ends. 
Instead of relatively small sales to many accounts, there are now larger 
sales to or through fewer accounts.   The change may require 
different products, pricing, packaging, warehousing, salesmanship, advertising 
and executive attention- practically every link in the marketing 
network may have to be adjusted. Have you examined these trends, 
forecast the effects, and planned your marketing strategy to compete 
effectively under changing circumstances? 

#2. PROBLEMS IN MARKETING 
METHODS#

_@ MORE PRIVATE LABEL COMPETITION._ In the area 
of private label competition, it is logical to expect a continuation of 
trends which have been under way during the first decade. As mass dealer 
and distributor organizations grow in size, there is every reason 
to expect them to try to share in the manufacturer's as well as the 
distributor's profits- which is, in effect, what the sale of private 
brands tends to do.   {Average manufacturer frequently has 
helped build private brand business, delivering largely the same qualities 
and styles in private brand merchandise as in branded}. Moreover, 
the larger and more aggressive mass distribution outlets and chain 
stores have insisted on high quality- and the customer seems to have 
caught on.   If you are up against private brand competition, 
have you formulated a long-term program for researching and strengthening 
your market position? If private brand competition hasn't been 
felt in your product field as yet, have you thought how you will cope 
with it if and when it does appear? _@ LESS PERSONAL SALESMANSHIP._ 
Display merchandising, backed by pre-selling through advertising 
and promotion, will continue to make strides in the sixties. It 
has multiple implications and possible headaches for your marketing program.

How can you cash in on this fast-growing type of outlet 
and still maintain relationships with older existing outlets which are 
still important? If you have a higher-quality product, how can you 
make it stand out- justify its premium price- without the spoken 
word? Salesmanship is still necessary, but it's a different brand 
of salesmanship.   Have you carefully examined the selling techniques 
which best suit your products? Have you studied the caliber 
and sales approaches of your sales force in relation to requirements 
for effective marketing? Are you experimenting with different selling 
slants in developing new customers? _@ HIGHER COSTS OF DISTRIBUTION 
GENERALLY._ Some distribution costs are kept up by competitive 
pressure, some by the fact that the customers have come to expect 
certain niceties and flourishes. {No manufacturer has taken the initiative 
in pointing out the costs involved}.   The use of bulk 
handling is continuously growing. Computers are being used to keep branch 
inventories at more workable levels. "Selective selling"- 
concentrating sales on the larger accounts- has been used effectively 
by some manufacturers.   There may be possible economies at any 
one of a number of links in your marketing and distribution chain. Do 
you have a program for scrutinizing all these links regularly and carefully- 
and with some imagination? In your sales force, will a 
smaller number of higher-priced, high-quality salesmen serve you best, 
or can you make out better with a larger number of lower-paid salesmen?

Will your trade customers settle for less attention and 
fewer frills in return for some benefit they can share? In one company 
covering the country with a high-quality sales force of 10 men, the 
president personally phones each major account every 6 mos&. As a 
result, distribution costs were cut, customer relations improved.

Distribution costs are almost bound to increase in the sixties- 
and you will never know what you can do to control them unless you study 
each element and experiment with alternative ways of doing the job. 
_@ HIGHER COSTS OF ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION._ From the manufacturer's 
point of view, the increasing cost of advertising and promotion 
is a very real problem to be faced in the sixties. It is accentuated 
by the need for pre-selling goods, and private label competition.

How much fundamental thinking and research has your company 
done on its advertising program? Are you following competition willy-nilly- 
trying to match dollar for dollar- or are you experimenting 
with new means for reaching and influencing consumers? Have you 
evaluated the proper place of advertising and all phases of promotion 
in your total marketing program- from the standpoint of effort, money, 
and effectiveness? _@ INCREASING TEMPO OF NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT._ 
Practically all forecasts mention new and exciting products 
on the horizon. Will you be out in the market place with some of these 
sales-building new products?   If competition beats you to it, 
this exciting new product era can have real headaches in store. On 
the other hand, the process of obsoleting an old product and introducing 
the new one is usually mighty expensive. As markets become larger 
and marketing more complex, the costs of an error become progressively 
larger.   Is your ~R+D or product development program tuned 
in to the commercial realities of the market? Are there regular communications 
from the field, or meetings of sales and marketing personnel 
with ~R+D people? {Technical knowledge is a wonderful thing, 
but it's useless unless it eventually feeds the cash register}.

Are there individuals in your organization who can shepherd 
a new product through to commercialization; who can develop reliable 
estimates of sales volume, production, and distribution costs; and 
translate the whole into profit and loss and balance sheet figures which 
management can act on with some assurance? We have seen good new 
products shelved because no one had the assignment to develop such facts 
and plans- and management couldn't make up its mind. 

#3. PROBLEMS 
IN MARKETING MANAGEMENT#

_@ SHORTAGE OF SKILLED SALESMEN._ 
There is a shortage of salesmen today. In the future, quantitative 
demand will be greater because of the expansion of the economy, and 
the qualitative need will be greater still.   While many companies 
have done fine work in developing sales personnel, much of it has been 
product rather than sales training. Nor has the training been enough 
in relation to the need. Most marketing people agree it is going 
to take redoubled efforts to satisfy future requirements.   Have 
you estimated your sales manpower needs for the future (both quantitatively 
and qualitatively)? Has your company developed selection and 
training processes that are geared to providing the caliber of salesmen 
you will need in the next 10 yr&? _@ SHORTAGE OF SALES MANAGEMENT 
TALENT._ With the growing complexity of markets and intensity 
of competition, sales management, whether at the district, region or 
headquarters level, is a tough job today- and it will be tougher in 
the future. Men qualified for the broader task of marketing manager 
are even more scarce due to the demanding combination of qualifications 
called for by this type of management work. The growth of business 
has outdistanced the available supply, and the demand will continue to 
exceed the supply in the sixties.   Does your company have a program 
for selecting and developing sales and marketing management personnel 
for the longer term? Does your management climate and your management 
compensation plan attract and keep top-notch marketing people? 
_@ COMPLEXITY OF COMPLETE MARKETING PLANNING._ Every single 
problem touched on thus far is related to good marketing planning. "Hip-pocket" 
tactics are going to be harder to apply. Many food and 
beverage companies are already on a highly planned basis. They have 
to be. With greater investments in plant facilities, with automation 
growing, you can't switch around, either in volume or in product 
design, as much as was formerly possible- or at least not as economically.

Are planning and strategy development emphasized sufficiently 
in your company? We find too many sales and marketing executives 
so burdened with detail that they are short-changing planning.

Are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management 
group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the 
marketing team? Do you have a long-term (5- or 10-yr&) marketing 
program?   The key to effective marketing is wrapped up in defining 
your company's marketing problems realistically. Solutions 
frequently suggest themselves when you accurately pinpoint your problems, 
whether they be in the market, in marketing methods or in marketing 
management.   If companies will take the time to give objective 
consideration to their major problems and to the questions they provoke, 
then a long constructive step will have been taken toward more effective 
marketing in next decade. 
The controversy of the last few years over whether architects or interior 
designers should plan the interiors of modern buildings has brought 
clearly into focus one important difference of opinion. The architects 
do not believe that the education of the interior designer is sufficiently 
good or sufficiently extended to compare with that of the architect 
and that, therefore, the interior designer is incapable of understanding 
the architectural principles involved in planning the interior 
of a building.   Ordinary politeness may have militated against 
this opinion being stated so badly but anyone with a wide acquaintance 
in both groups and who has sat through the many round tables, workshops 
or panel discussions- whatever they are called- on this subject 
will recognize that the final, boiled down crux of the matter is 
education.   It is true that most architectural schools have five 
year courses, some even have six or more. The element of public danger 
which enters so largely into architectural certification, however, 
would demand a prolonged study of structure. This would, naturally, 
lengthen their courses far beyond the largely esthetic demands of interior 
designer's training.   We may then dismiss the time difference 
between these courses and the usual four year course of the interior 
design student as not having serious bearing on the subject. The 
real question that follows is- how are those four years used and what 
is their value as training?   The American Institute of Interior 
Designers has published a recommended course for designers and 
a percentage layout of such a course. An examination of some forty 
catalogs of schools offering courses in interior design, for the most 
part schools accredited by membership in the National Association of 
Schools of Art, and a further "on the spot" inspection of a number 
of schools, show their courses adhere pretty closely to the recommendations. 
One or two of the schools have a five year curriculum, but 
the usual pattern of American education has limited most of them to 
the four-year plan which seems to be the minimum in acceptable institutions.

The suggested course of the A&I&D& was based 
on the usual course offered and on the opinion of many educators as to 
curricular necessities. Obviously, the four year provision limits this 
to fundamentals and much desirable material must be eliminated.

Without comparing the relative merits of the two courses- architecture 
versus interior design- let us examine the educational needs 
of the interior designer.   To begin with, what is an interior 
designer? "The Dictionary of Occupational Titles" published 
by the U& S& Department of Labor describes him as follows: "Designs, 
plans and furnishes interiors of houses, commercial and institutional 
structures, hotels, clubs, ships, theaters, as well as set 
decorations for motion picture arts and television. Makes drawings and 
plans of rooms showing placement of furniture, floor coverings, wall 
decorations, and determines color schemes.   Furnishes complete 
cost estimates for clients approval. Makes necessary purchases, places 
contracts, supervises construction, installation, finishing and placement 
of furniture, fixtures and other correlated furnishings, and follows 
through to completion of project".   In addition to this 
the U& S& Civil Service Bureau, when examining applicants for 
government positions as interior designers, expects that "when various 
needed objects are not obtainable on the market he will design them. 
He must be capable of designing for and supervising the manufacture 
of any craft materials needed in the furnishings".   This 
seems like a large order. The interior designer, then, must first be 
an artist but also understand carpentry and painting and lighting and 
plumbing and finance. Yet nobody will question the necessity of all this 
and any reputable interior designer does know all this and does practice 
it. And further he must understand his obligation to the client 
to not only meet his physical necessities but also to enhance and improve 
his life and to enlarge the cultural horizon of our society.

Few will quarrel with the aim of the schools or with the wording 
of their curriculum. It is in the quality of the teaching of all this 
that a question may arise.   The old established independent art 
schools try their best to fulfill their obligations. Yet even here 
many a problem is presented; as in a recent design competition with 
a floor plan and the simple command- "design a luxury apartment"; 
no description of the client or his cultural level, no assertion of 
geographical area or local social necessities- simply "a luxury 
apartment". Working in a vacuum of minimal information can result only 
in show pieces that look good in exhibitions and catalogs and may 
please the public relations department but have little to do with the 
essence of interior design.   It is possible, of course, to work 
on extant or projected buildings where either architect or owner will 
explain their necessities so that the student may get "the feel" 
of real interior design demands. Unfortunately, the purely synthetic 
problem is the rule.   It is like medical schools in India where, 
in that fairy-land of religious inhibition, the dissection of dead 
bodies is frowned upon. Instead they learn their dissection on the bulbs 
of plants. Thus technical efficiency is achieved at the expense 
of actual experience.   In the earlier years of training certain 
phases of the work must be covered and the synthetic problem has its 
use. But to continue to divorce advanced students from reality is inexcusable.

Consultation with architects, clients, real estate men, 
fabric houses and furniture companies is essential to the proper development 
of class problems just as in actual work. Fortunately, although 
only a few years ago they held the student at arms length, today 
the business houses welcome the opportunity to aid the student, not only 
from an increased sense of community responsibility but also from 
the realization that the student of today is the interior designer of 
tomorrow- that the student already is "in the trade".   Even 
the "history of furniture" can hardly be taught exclusively from 
photographs and lantern slides. Here, too, the reality of actual furniture 
must be experienced.   The professional organizations such 
as American Institute of Interior Designers, National Society 
of Interior Designers, Home Fashions League and various trade associations, 
can and do aid greatly in this work. Certainly every educator 
involved in interior design should be a member and active in thework 
of one of these organizations.   Not only should every educator 
above the rank of instructor be expected to be a member of one of 
the professional organizations, but his first qualification for membership 
as an educator should be so sharply scrutinized that membership 
would be equivalent to certification to teach the subject.

Participation for the educator in this case, however, would have to 
be raised to full and complete membership. The largest of these organizations 
at present denies to the full time educator any vote on the 
conduct and standards of the group and, indeed, refuses him even the 
right to attach the customary initials after his name in the college catalog.

This anomalous status of the educator cannot fail to lower 
his standing in the eyes of the students. The professor in turn 
dares not tolerate the influence in his classes of an organization in 
the policies and standards of which he has no voice.   This seems 
somewhat shortsighted since if the absolute educational qualifications 
for membership which the organizations profess are ever enforced, the 
educator will have the molding of the entire profession in his hands.

In one way the Institutes and Societies do a disservice to 
the schools. That is in the continuance of the "grandfather clauses" 
in their membership requirements.   When these groups were 
first formed many prominent and accomplished decorators could not have 
had the advantage of school training since interior design courses were 
rare and 
undeveloped during their youth. Long hard years of "on the 
job" training had brought them to their competence.   The necessity 
of that day has long disappeared. There is plenty of opportunity 
for proper education today. It is discouraging for students to realize 
that the societies do not truly uphold the standards for which they 
are supposed to stand.   The reason and the day of "grandfather 
clauses" has long since passed. No one can deny that these "back 
door" admissions to membership provisions have been seriously abused 
nor that they have not resulted in the admission of downright incompetents 
to membership in supposedly learned societies.   Beyond 
any question of curriculum and approach to subject must be the quality 
of the teachers themselves. It will occur to anyone that the teacher 
must have adequate education, a depth and breadth of knowledge far 
beyond the immediate necessities of his course plus complete dedication 
to his subject and to his students. The local decorator who rushes 
in for a few hours of teaching may but more likely may not have these 
qualifications.   Nor will the hack, the Jack-of-all-trades, still 
found in some of the smaller art schools, suffice.   Only a 
few years ago a middle western college circulated a request for a teacher 
of interior design. At the end of its letter was the information 
that applicants for this position "must also be prepared to teach costume 
design and advertising art". This kind of irresponsibility toward 
their students can scarcely build a strong professional attitude 
in the future designer.   We must build a corp of highly professional 
teachers of interior design who have had education, experience 
in the profession and are willing to take on the usual accompaniments 
of teaching- minimal income and minimal status among their confreres.

Considerable specialization in teaching subjects such as architecture, 
furniture design, textiles and color is also desirable.

In all "degree" courses in interior design a number of "academic" 
or "general studies" courses are included. It is only fair 
to demand that teachers of courses in English, history, psychology 
and so on be as well informed in matters of art, especially interior 
design, as are the art teachers educated in the academic subjects. The 
proper correlation of the art with the academic can be achieved only 
if this standard is observed. The matter of sympathy of the academic 
professors for art objectives also must be taken into account. 
One technical question of school organization comes to mind here. For 
proper accreditation of schools, teachers in any course must have 
a degree at least one level above that for which the student is a candidate. 
Since there are almost no schools in the country offering graduate 
work in interior design this rule cannot at present be observed. 
Indeed, it has only been a matter of the last few years that reputable 
schools of art have granted degrees at all. The question, however, 
cannot be ignored for long. The basic problem involved is that a college 
setting up a graduate school must have an entirely separate faculty 
for the advanced degree. Most professors in the course must, naturally, 
again have a higher degree than the course offers. One solution 
is the aquisition of degrees in education but it is a poor substitute. 
It is a sort of academic ring-around-a rosy and you solve it. 
This brings us to the question of accreditation of art schools in general. 
Only the independent art schools, that is, those not connected 
with any university or college, receive severe and separate investigation 
before accreditation by the various regional organizations. It has 
been the custom for most universities to stretch the blanket of accreditation 
for their liberal arts school to cover the shivering body of 
their fine arts department. This, plus the habit of many schools of 
simply adding interior design to the many subjects of their home economics 
department, yet, nevertheless, claiming that they teach interior 
design, has contributed to the low repute of many university courses 
in interior design. In spite of this, many universities offer adequate 
and even distinguished courses in the subject.   There will be 
no mitigation of these offences until all art schools, whether independent 
or attached to universities have separate accreditation- as do 
medical schools- by an art accreditation group such as the "National 
Association of Schools of Art".   Independent art schools 
granting degrees must, naturally, follow this with academic accreditation 
by the appropriate regional group. 

#GENERAL#

How long has it been since you reviewed the objectives 
of your benefit and service program? Have you permitted it to become 
a giveaway program rather than one that has the goal of improved employee 
morale and, consequently, increased productivity?   What 
effort do you make to assess results of your program? Do you measure 
its relation to reduced absenteeism, turnover, accidents, and grievances, 
and to improved quality and output?   Have you set specific 
objectives for your employee publication? Is it reaching these 
goals? Is it larger or fancier than you really need? Are you using 
the most economical printing methods, paper, etc&. Are there other, 
cheaper communications techniques that could be substituted?

Has your attitude toward employee benefits encouraged an excess 
of free "government" work in your plant?   Is your purchasing 
agent offering too much free-buying service for employees?

When improvements are recommended in working conditions- such as 
lighting, rest rooms, eating facilities, air-conditioning- do you try 
to set a measure of their effectiveness on productivity?   When 
negotiating with your union, do you make sure employees have a choice 
between new benefits and their cents-per-hour cost in wages.

Can you consider restricting any additional employee benefits to those 
paid for by profit-sharing money, such as was done in the union contract 
recently signed by American Motors Corporation? 

#INSURANCE# 

Do your employees understand all the benefits to which your insurance 
entitles them? Are they encouraged to take full legal advantage 
of these benefits? Have you publicized the cents-per-hour value 
of the company's share of insurance premiums?   When did you 
last compare your present premium costs with the costs of insurance 
from other sources?   Can your insurance company aid you in reducing 
administrative costs?   Do you try to maintain the principle 
of employee-contributed (as opposed to fully company-paid) programs? 

#HOLIDAYS, TIME OFF, OVERTIME#

Do you protect your holiday 
privileges with an attendance requirement both before and after the holiday?

Do you plan to limit additional holidays to area and/or 
industrial patterns?   Have you investigated the possibility 
of moving midweek holidays forward to Monday or back to Friday in 
order to have an uninterrupted work week?   Are you carefully 
policing wash-up time and rest periods to be certain that all other time 
is productive?   Are you watching work schedules for boiler 
operators, guards, and other 24-hour-day, 7-day-week operations in order 
to minimize overtime?   Are you careful to restrict the number 
of people on leave at one time so that your total employment obligation 
is minimized? 

#PLANT FEEDING FACILITIES#

Have you considered 
using vending equipment to replace or reduce the number of cafeteria 
employees?   What are the possibilities for operating your 
cafeteria for a single shift only and relying upon vending machines 
or prepackaged sandwiches for the second- and third-shift operations?

Have you checked the cost of subcontracting your cafeteria 
operation in order to save administrative costs?   Are there 
possibilities of having cafeteria help work part-time on custodial or 
other jobs?   Can staggered lunch periods relieve the capacity 
strain on your feeding facilities?   Would it be feasible to 
limit the menu in order to reduce feeding costs?   Have you considered 
gradual withdrawal of subsidies to your in-plant feeding operation?

Are you utilizing cafeteria space for company meetings 
or discussions? 

#RECREATION FACILITIES#

Are your expenses in 
this area commensurate with the number of employees who benefit from 
your program?   Have you audited your program recently to weed 
out those phases that draw least participation?   Do employees 
contribute their share of money to recreational facilities? 
Have you considered delegating operational responsibility to your employee 
association and carefully restricting your plant's financial 
contribution?   Could an employee's garden club take over partial 
care of plant grounds? Would a camera club be useful in taking 
pictures pertinent to plant safety?   Are you spending too much 
money on team uniforms that benefit only a few employees? Are you 
underwriting expensive team trips?   Are you utilizing vending 
machine proceeds to help pay for your program? 

#TRANSPORTATION 
AND PARKING#

Do you know the trend in your cost of maintaining access 
roads and parking lots?   If you use parking attendants, can 
they be replaced by automatic parking gates?   Will your local 
bus company erect and/or maintain the bus stops at your plant?

If you provide inter-plant transportation, can this be replaced 
by available public transportation? If you use company transportation 
to meet trains or to haul visitors, would taxis be cheaper?

How efficient and necessary are your intra-company vehicles? Can 
they be re-scheduled? Can part-time drivers be assigned to other 
productive work? 

#PAID VACATIONS#

Which is more economical for 
your plant- a vacation shutdown or spaced vacations that require extra 
employees for vacation fill-ins?   Can vacations be spaced 
throughout the 12 months to minimize the number of employee fill-ins?

Do you insist that unneeded salary employees take their vacations 
during plant shutdowns?   What can your sales and purchasing 
departments do to curtail orders, shipments, and receipts during vacation 
shutdown periods? 

#RETIREMENT#

Is an arbitrary retirement 
age of 65 actually costing your plant money?   What sort of 
effort do you make to assure that older or disabled workers are fully 
productive? Would early retirement of non-productive, disabled employees 
reduce the number of make-work jobs?   Will your union 
accept seniority concessions in assigning work for older or disabled employees? 

#MEDICAL AND HEALTH#

Can you share medical facilities 
and staff with neighboring plants?   If you have a full-time 
doctor now, can he be replaced with a part-time doctor or one who serves 
on a fee-per-case basis only?   Can your plant nurse be replaced 
by a trained first-aid man who works full-time on some other assignment?

Do you rigidly distinguish between job- and non-job-connected 
health problems and avoid treating the latter?   Are 
you indiscriminantly offering unnecessary medical services- flu shots, 
sun lamp treatments, etc&?   If you have an annual or regular 
physical examination program, is it worth what it is costing you? 

#A PROGRAM TO FIT YOUR NEEDS#

Consider what you can afford 
to spend and what your goals are before setting up or revamping your employee 
benefit program. Too many plant officials are all too eager to 
buy a package program from an insurance company simply because it works 
for another plant.   But even if that other plant employs the 
same number of workers and makes the same product, there are other facts 
to consider. How old is your working force? What's your profit 
margin? In what section of the country are you located? Are 
you in a rural or urban area? These factors can make the difference 
between waste and efficiency in any benefit program.   Above all, 
don't set up extravagant fringe benefits just to buy employee good 
will. Unions stress fringe benefits, but the individual hourly worker 
prefers cash every time.   Aim to balance your employee benefit 
package. Some plants go overboard on one type of fringe- say a liberal 
retirement plan- and find themselves vulnerable elsewhere. They're 
asking for union trouble. 

#COMMUNICATIONS#

If you want credit 
for your employee services program, let your workers know what they're 
entitled to. Encourage them to exercise their benefits. This 
can be done by stories in your house organs, posters, special 
publications, letters to workers' homes as well as 
by word of mouth through your chain of command.   Some companies 
find a little imagination helpful. Hallmark Cards, Inc&, Kansas 
City, Mo&, has a do-it-yourself quiz game called "Benefit Bafflers", 
which it distributes to employees. ~M + ~R Dietetic Laboratories, 
Inc&, Columbus, gives all its workers a facsimile checkbook- 
each check showing the amount the company spends on a particular 
fringe. U& S& Rubber Company, New York, passes out a form 
itemizing the value of benefits. The blue-collar worker thus knows 
his insurance package, for example, costs $227.72. 

#INSURANCE#

Have 
the insurance company or your own accounting department break down 
the cost of your insurance package periodically. You may find certain 
coverage costing much more than is economically feasible, thereby alerting 
you to desirable revisions.   Check to see if some of your 
benefits- such as on-the-job disability pay- can be put on a direct 
payment rather than an insured basis at a savings to you. 
Use deductable insurance wherever feasible. It can put an end to marginal 
claims which play havoc with your insurance rates. Also, beware 
of open-end policies, especially in the medical field. This will mean 
that every time there's an increase in hospital rates your cost will 
go up in like manner. Put a dollar-and-cents limit on benefits.

Don't go overboard on insurance that pays benefits only upon death. 
Generally, your employee will greatly appreciate benefits that 
protect him during his working life or during retirement. 

#SPECIAL TIME 
OFF#

In granting bereavement leaves, specify the maximum time off 
and list what the worker's relation to the deceased must be to qualify. 
Thus, you avoid headaches when an employee wants off for his fourth 
cousin's funeral. Also, reserve the right to demand proof of 
death despite the fact that you'll probably never use it.   Coffee 
breaks can be a real headache if not regulated. Vending machines 
can alleviate the long hike to the cafeteria during the break with resulting 
waste of production time. If coffee is sold at the cafeteria, 
let a few workers in each department get it for the whole group. Consider 
installing supplemental serving lines in production areas. Make 
sure milk for the coffee is placed in dispensers rather than in containers, 
if you are supplying the coffee. Otherwise, you may be saddled 
with a good-size milk bill by milk drinkers. 

#RETIREMENT POLICIES# 

Keep the retirement age flexible so skilled craftsmen such as tool 
and die makers can be kept on the job for the convenience of the company. 
And so deadheads on the payroll can be eased out at the earliest 
possible age. Make sure you have minimum age and time-on-the-job requirements 
tied into your pension plan. Younger men usually don't think 
of pensions as an important job benefit factor anyhow and they're 
liable to change jobs several times before settling down.   Choose 
carefully between contributory or non-contributory pension plans. 
There are two sides of a coin for this decision. Workers usually think 
more of a plan they contribute to. And they can at least collect 
the money they put in, plus interest, when they leave the company. A 
non-contributory plan usually won't pay off for the worker until he 
retires. Thus, there is an added incentive to stay on the job. 

#HOLIDAYS# 

Make sure you don't pay for holidays that occur when an employee 
would not otherwise be working. These include: leaves of absences, 
illnesses, and layoffs.   Consider adopting a system of holidays 
in which time off is granted with an eye to minimum inconvenience 
to the operation of the plant. It's usually not too hard to sell 
workers on this as it gives them longer holiday periods. For example, 
the Friday after Thanksgiving can be substituted for Washington's 
birthday. This reduces the number of expensive plant shutdowns and 
startups.   Require each employee to work his last shift both 
before and after the holiday to be eligible for pay. This cuts the absentee 
rate. 

#EATING FACILITIES#

Consider using vending machines 
rather than subsidized cafeterias. Latest models serve hot meals at reasonable 
prices, and at a profit to you. If a concessionaire runs the 
cafeteria, keep an eye out for quality and price. If the soup tastes 
like dishwater, your employees won't blame the concessionaire. You'll 
take the rap.   Check your cafeteria location to make sure 
it's convenient for most employees. You may save valuable production 
minutes with a change. 

#VACATIONS#

Spread your vacation period 
over the widest possible span of time or shut the plant down for two 
weeks. This will cut the expense of vacation replacements. And with 
the shutdown method there will be no argument as to who gets the choice 
vacation dates.   Also make sure you have reasonable requirements 
as to hours worked before a production employee is entitled to a 
vacation. You might try providing standard vacation time off but make 
the vacation pay depend on the number of hours worked in the previous 
year. 
THE LONG and ever-increasing column of sportsmen is now moving into 
a new era. Modern times have changed the world beyond recognition. 
The early years of the twentieth century seem very far away. But with 
all the changes in philosophy, dress and terrain- a few things remain 
constant, including the devotion of Americans to the great field 
sports, hunting and fishing.   As the generations move on, clothes 
become more suitable for the enjoyment of outdoor sports. Sporting 
firearms change, markedly for the better. Just as modern transportation 
has outmoded the early Studebaker covered wagon, the demand of 
today's sportsmen and women has necessitated changes in their equipment.

The American firearms and ammunition manufacturers through 
diligent research and technical development have replaced the muzzle 
loader and slow-firing single-shot arms with modern fast firing auto-loaders, 
extremely accurate bolt, lever, and slide action firearms. And 
millions of rounds of entirely new and modern small-arms ammunition, 
designed for today's hunting and target shooting.   And due 
to modern resource-use and game management practices, there is still 
game to shoot, even with the ever-expanding encroachment on land and 
water. Present conservation practices regard wildlife, not as an expendable 
natural resource, but as an annual harvest to be sown and also 
reaped. Unlimited game bags are possible and legal in more than 40 states, 
on shooting preserves (one of the newer phases of modern game-management) 
for five and six months each year.   Close to two million 
game birds were harvested on 1,500 commercial and private shooting 
preserves, and on State Game Commission-controlled upland game areas 
during the 1960-61 season. The shooting development program of the 
Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute has successfully 
published these facts in all major outdoor magazines, many national 
weeklies and the trade papers.   The most effective way to 
develop more places for more sportsmen to shoot is to encourage properly 
managed shooting preserves. This has been the aim of the director 
of the shooting development program, the New York staff of the Sportsmen's 
Service Bureau, and the ~SAAMI shooting preserve 
field consultants since the start of the program in 1954.   Following 
the kick-off of ~SAAMI's shooting development program 
in 1954, a most interesting meeting took place in Washington, D& C&. 
The group known as the American Association for Health, Physical 
Education, and Recreation (a division of the National Education 
Association) initiated a conference which brought together representatives 
of the National Rifle Association, ~SAAMI and the American 
Fishing Tackle Manufacturers. This meeting was called to 
determine how these groups might cooperate to launch what is known as 
the Outdoor Education Project.   The Outdoor Education Project 
took cognizance of the fact, so often overlooked, that athletic 
activities stressed in most school programs have little or no relationship 
to the physical and mental needs and interests of later life. The 
various team sports assuredly have their place in every school, and 
they are important to proper physical development. But with the exception 
of professional athletes, few contact sports and physical education 
activities in our schools have any carryover in the adult life of 
the average American man or woman.   Following a vigorous campaign 
of interpretation and leadership development by ~OEP director 
Dr& Julian Smith, today thousands of secondary schools, colleges 
and universities have shooting and hunting education in their physical 
education and recreation programs. ~SAAMI's financial support 
since 1955 has contributed to the success of this project in education. 
Personnel assigned through the shooting development program have 
proudly participated in over 53 state and regional workshops, at which 
hundreds of school administrators, teachers, professors, and recreational 
leaders have been introduced to Outdoor Education. Considering 
that the current school-age potential is 23 million youths, the project 
and its message on hunting and shooting education have many more 
to reach.   In 1959 ~SAAMI's shooting development program 
announced a new activity designed to expose thousands of teen-age boys 
and girls to the healthy fun enjoyed through the participation in 
the shooting sports. This program is now nationally known as "Teen 
Hunter Clubs".   Teen Hunter Clubs were initially sponsored 
by affiliated members of the Allied Merchandising Corporation. 
The first program was sponsored by Abraham + Strauss, Hempstead, New 
York, under the direction of Special Events director Jennings 
Dennis. Other pilot programs were conducted by ~A + ~S, Babylon, 
New York; J& L& Hudson, Detroit; Joseph Horne, Pittsburgh.

Other ~THC activities followed, conducted by shopping 
centers, department stores, recreation equipment dealers, radio-~TV 
stations, newspapers, and other organizations interested in the 
need existing to acquaint youngsters with the proper use of sporting 
firearms and the development of correct attitudes and appreciations 
related to hunting and wise use of our natural resources. ~SAAMI's 
field men have served as consultants and/or have participated in 
75 Teen Hunter Club activities which have reached over 40,000 enthusiastic 
young Americans.   Through the efforts of ~SAAMI's 
shooting development program these shooting activities, and many 
others, including assists in the development of public and privately 
financed shooting parks, trap and skeet leagues, rifle and pistol marksmanship 
programs have been promoted, to mention only a few.   The 
continuation and expansion of the shooting development program will 
assure to some degree that national and community leaders will be made 
aware of the ever-growing need for shooting facilities and activities 
for hunting and shooting in answer to public demand. While individual 
sportsmen are aware of this situation, too many of our political, 
social, educational and even religious leaders too often forget it. Help 
is needed from dealers, at the grass-roots level.   The American 
gun and ammunition producers sponsor a successful promotional program 
through their industry trade association. Since ~SAAMI's 
conception in 1926, and more specifically since the adoption of the 
Shooting Development Program in 1954, millions of dollars and promotional 
man-hours have gone into the development of more places to shoot 
for more youths and adults. We trust that you, as a gun and ammunition 
dealer, have benefited through additional sales of equipment.

Are you getting top dollar from the shooting sports? Are you looking 
ahead to the exploding market of millions of American boys and 
girls, who will grow up to enjoy a traditional American way of life- 
ranging the fields with a fine American gun and uniformly excellent 
ammunition?   <Is your 
sporting firearms and ammunition department 
primed for the expanding horizons?>   Would you like to 
organize Teen Hunters Clubs, shooting programs, and have information 
on seasons including six months of hunting with unlimited game bags 
on shooting preserves? Ask Sammy Shooter. 
WE WERE CAMPING a few weeks ago on Cape Hatteras Campground in 
that land of pirates, seagulls and bluefish on North Carolina's 
famed Outer Banks. This beach campground with no trees or hills presents 
a constant camping show with all manner of equipment in actual 
use.   With the whole camp exposed to view we could see the variety 
of canvas shelters in which Americans are camping now. There were 
umbrella tents, wall tents, cottage tents, station wagon tents, pup 
tents, Pop tents, Baker tents, tents with exterior frames, camper trailers, 
travel trailers, and even a few surplus parachutes serving as 
sunshades over entire family camps.   Moving around camp we saw 
all kinds of camp stoves, lanterns, coolers, bedding, games, fishing tackle, 
windbreaks and sunshades. We saw similar displays in the other 
three campgrounds in this 70 mile-long National Seashore Recreation 
Area. Dealers would do well to visit such a campground often, look 
at the equipment and talk with the campers. Here you begin to appreciate 
the scope of the challenges and possibilities facing the industry.

Camping is big and getting bigger. No one knows where it will 
stop. Almost every official who reflects on it thinks this movement 
of Americans to canvas dwellings opens one of the most promising of 
all outdoor markets. You read various guesses on how many Americans 
are camping. The number depends on who is talking at the moment. The 
figures range as high as 15 million families. I've heard 10 million 
mentioned often, but I'm more inclined to think there may be a 
total of some five to seven million families camping. Seven million families 
would total 30 million Americans or more. Consider the equipment 
needed to protect this many from the weather, to make their cooking 
easy and their sleeping comfortable. 

#MORE CAMPERS THAN CAMPSITES# 

Harassed state park officials often have more campers than they 
know what to do with. They are struggling to meet the demand for camping 
space, but families are being turned away, especially on holiday 
weekends. The National Parks, always popular camping places, are facing 
the same pressure. The National Park Service hopes by 1966 to 
have 30,000 campsites available for 100,000 campers a day- almost 
twice what there are at present. The U& S& Forest Service cares 
for hundreds of thousands of campers in its 149 National Forests 
and is increasing its facilities steadily.   But the campers still 
come. They bring their families and tents and camp kitchens and bedding. 
They bring their fishing rods and binoculars and bathing suits. 
They come prepared for family fun because Americans in ever-growing 
numbers are learning that here is the way to a fine economical vacation 
that becomes a family experience of lasting importance. 

#WHY THEY 
KEEP COMING#

There are a half dozen reasons helping to account for 
the migration to the campgrounds. Among them, according to the U& 
S& Department of Commerce, are: (1) shorter work weeks, (2) 
higher pay, (3) longer paid vacations, (4) better transportation, (5) 
earlier retirement, and (6) more education. The more people learn about 
their country, the more they want to learn. Camping is family fun, 
and it is helping more Americans see more of the country than they ever 
saw before.   But make no mistake about it, the first reason 
people turn to camping is one of economy. Here is the promise of a vacation 
trip they can afford.   The American Automobile Association, 
computing the cost for two people to vacation by automobile, comes 
up with an average daily expenditure figure of $29. The ~AAA 
then splits it down this way: $10.50 for meals, $9.50 for lodging, 
$7 for gas and oil, and $2 for tips and miscellaneous.   What does 
the camping couple do to this set of figures? The $9.50 for lodging 
they save. Because they prepare their own meals they also keep in 
their pockets a good portion of that $10.50 food bill along with most 
of the tip money. The automobile expenses are about the only vacationing 
cost they can't either eliminate or pare down drastically by camping 
along the way.   Where Americans used to think of a single 
vacation each summer, they now think about how many vacations they 
can have. Long weekends enable many to get away from home for three or 
four days several times a year. And even if they stay in resorts part 
of the time, they might, if the right salesman gets them in tow, develop 
a yearning to spice the usual vacation fare with a camping trip 
into the wide open spaces.   It would be a mistake to sell those 
thousands of beginning campers on the idea they're buying the comforts 
of home. They're not. Home is the place to find the comforts of 
home. They're buying fun and adventure and family experiences. But 
it would also be a mistake for them not to realize how comfortable 
camping has become. This is no longer a way of life for the bearded 
logger and the wandering cowboy. Today's campers want comforts, and 
they have them. And this helps explain why so many people are now going 
camping. It's fun, and it's easy- so easy that there is time 
left after cooking, and tent keeping, for the women to get out and 
enjoy outdoor fun with their families.   Camp meals are no great 
problem. Neither are beds, thanks to air mattresses and sleeping bags. 
Neither are shelters, because there is one to meet the needs of every 
camper or prospective camper.   But there is still the sometimes 
complex problem of helping campers choose the best equipment for 
their individual needs. 
@ Throughout history, the man who showed superior performance has become 
the commander of others- for good or bad. Since the Industrial 
Revolution, when factories emerged, this classical pattern has been 
followed. {Until recently.}   There have always been tales 
of disillusionment- the competent technician who became an administrator, 
willingly or not, and found he didn't like it; the scientist 
who rebelled against the personnel and paper work; and much more 
commonly in recent years, the engineer who found that other duties interfered 
with- or eliminated- his engineering contributions. {There 
have been many extremely competent men who have been converted into 
very incompetent managers or submerged in paper work, to their own and 
the public's dissatisfaction and loss.}   This has been more 
evident since our products have incorporated astronomically increased 
technology. The remedies have been many and varied- attempts to 
teach management techniques- either in plant, at special schools, 
or 
in university "crash" courses- provision of management-trained assistants 
or associates. {But the realization has been growing that 
these are not the complete answer.} Some men have no talent for or 
interest in management; forcing them into management can only create 
trouble. The old shop adage still holds: "A good mechanic is usually 
a bad boss".   Yet our economy clings inexorably to recognition 
of managerial status as the gage of success. Labor fights to 
change its collar from blue to white. All grades of management seek 
more resounding titles and incomes because of social pressures. As several 
recent books have over-emphasized, {we have become the most status-conscious 
nation in the world.}   {What can be done for 
the "individual contributor"} who is extremely important- and 
likely to be more so- in the operation of the technically oriented 
company? He is usually conscious of the social pressures at home and 
outside; usually concerned about America's belief that attainment 
and success are measured in dollars and titles. Yet titles are traditionally 
given only to management men, and income tends to rise with 
title.   Even the college professor in America has been affected. 
It is, as one engineer says, "indeed a difficult thing for the 
engineer to accept that he can go as far on his technical merit as he 
could employing managerial skills. This difficulty arises even though 
we can give examples of men who have actually followed this course. This 
leads one to conclude, as you have, that there is inevitably more 
prestige in a management position in the minds of our people".

Nobody should be more able to answer the questions on this score than 
engineering vice-presidents and chief engineers. So we asked such 
men in major companies in the design field to offer their opinions on 
the "dual-road-up" problem- and more importantly- their solutions. 
In the paragraphs that follow, we quote from 32 men who are identified 
on the final page. 

#FIRST: WHAT TITLE, WHAT SETUP?#

Among 
the more familiar plans for dual-channel advancement is that of 
General Electric. {This is not a mutually exclusive plan; there 
is no one point in a man's career at which he must select either the 
technical or the managerial path upward. Further, the management path 
does not open the door to higher opportunities than are offered by 
the more technical path. It is common to shift back and forth, working 
up through a number of supervisory and individual-contributor positions.}

Actually, there are a number of individual-contributor 
positions in both operating departments and in the company-wide "services" 
operation that are filled by men with successful managerial 
experience who are currently broadening their capabilities.   Also, 
moving into a managerial position does not necessarily end a man's 
recognition as a technical expert. As examples at ~GE: Glen 
B& Warren, formerly manager of the Turbine Division, widely recognized 
as a turbine designer. The late W& R& G& Baker, a pioneer 
in television design and long-time ~vp + ~gm of the Electronics 
Division, and later, by his own choice, an individual consultant. 
Harold E& Strang, expert in switchgear design, for a long period 
~vp + ~gm of the Measurements + Industrial Products Division, 
and who currently, approaching retirement, is vice-president and consulting 
engineer in the Switchgear + Control Division.   In 
the ~GE plan, a number of individual contributors have positions 
and compensation higher than those of many managers. These positions 
carry such titles as:   Consultant- Advanced Development

Consulting Engineer   Consulting Engineer- Heat Transfer

Consulting Electrical Engineer   Senior Electrical 
Engineer   Senior Physicist   Westinghouse has a similar 
system, with two classifications representing various levels of competence 
on the strictly technical side: consulting engineer or scientist, 
as the case may be, and advisory engineer or scientist. Many 
companies have systems, particularly in ~R + ~D, which work more 
or less well, depending upon size and actual belief in the policy on 
the part of administration, as will be abundantly apparent in subsequent 
quotations.   Another factor that may hold hope is for parallel 
recognition is, as one man says it: "**h that the fad for educating 
top people along managerial lines is yielding to the technically 
trained approach". _SENIOR STAFF ENGINEER?_ One company instituted, 
early in 1959, a vertical classification system consisting of four 
levels. There is no formal equivalence to the supervisory ranks; 
the top non-supervisory level, senior staff engineer, enjoys status 
and pay ranging up to that for the second level of engineering supervision. 
The second level, senior engineer, rates slightly below first-level 
supervision. The expectation is that first-level supervisors will 
be selected in approximately equal numbers from the second and third 
engineering level, with very few coming from the first level.

The company expects to extend upward both compensation and status for 
non-supervisory engineers, but probably not into executive levels. 
{In this organization, about half of the engineers with 15 or more 
years of employment are in supervision, engineering or elsewhere.} This 
reflects the very heavy engineering content of the products- which 
are not military. Several other examples: _CENTRAL AND SATELLITE_ 
"We have over 20 divisions- each of which has an engineering 
department headed by a chief engineer. We have set up a central ~R 
+ ~D department, as well as engineering-management departments- 
about 80 people working on problems related to those of our plants. 
A separate research department is, of course, confined to new or future 
designs. Part of this headquarters staff, however, are engineering 
managers who work between divisional chief engineers and headquarters 
management. These headquarters engineers, headed by the vice-president- 
Engineering, counsel and advise divisional managers and chief 
engineers on product problems as well as aid with design; and many are 
engineers who have been advanced from the divisions. These men are 
considered managers of engineers. They must learn to wear several hats, 
so to speak, working with management, sales and engineering problems 
related to the product.   "We do not have people in our organization 
termed 'consultants' or 'fellows', who are specialists 
in one particular technical subject. I suppose it is because we are 
just not big enough. We have a few 'consultants'- retired engineers 
retained and called in on certain problems. The only 'fellows' 
in our company are those who have been honored by ~ASME, ~AIEE 
or ~AIChE **h I am sure that the engineer who enters 
management is nearly always opening the door to greater possibilities 
than he would have as a technical specialist- because of his wider 
accountability". 

_ANOTHER STRUCTURE_ "We have tried to make both 
paths attractive, so that good men could find opportunity and satisfaction 
in either. One way to formalize this is in the job structure. 
We have these positions, which compare directly: **f   "Above 
these jobs we have chief engineer for the company and vice-president 
of ~Engrg, ~R + ~D. The latter jobs include major management 
responsibilities and have been filled by those who have come up primarily 
through the engineering-management side **h {We have not yet 
succeeded in establishing recognition of technical specialization comparable 
to our higher levels of management, but I believe we will trend 
in this direction} **h but not to exceed vice-president". _TOP 
JOB: RESEARCH SCIENTIST_ "Approximately four years ago, we 
initiated a dual ladder of advancement for technical persons **h The 
highest position is known as a 'research scientist'. This approach 
has not been entirely satisfactory. The primary deterrent appears to 
lie with the technical people themselves, and their concept of what 
constitutes status in present-day society. {Scientists who agitate 
hardest 
for technical recognition are often the most reluctant to accept 
it **h We have discovered that the outward trappings such as private 
offices and private secretaries are extremely important;} and although 
we have attempted to provide these status symbols, support of the 
'dual-ladder' plan has been half-hearted **h despite the creation 
of a salary potential for a research scientist commensurate with that 
of men in top managerial positions.   {"A serious problem 
accompanying the technical-ladder approach is the difficulty of clearly 
defining responsibilities and standards of performance for each level.} 
With no set standards, there is the tendency to promote to the 
next highest level when the top of a salary band is reached regardless 
of performance **h {promotion is too often based on longevity and 
time in salary grade instead of merit.} If no specific organization 
plan exists limiting the number of scientists at each salary level, 
the result is a department top-heavy with high-level, high-salaried personnel". 
_STAFF ENGINEER @ DEPT MANAGER_ "We have two approaches 
for the technical man: the position of staff engineer, which 
is rated as high in salary as department manager; and an administrative 
organization to take the routine load away from department managers 
and project engineers as much as possible, thus allowing them more time 
for strictly technical work. These are only halfway measures, and 
the answer will come when some way is found to allow the technical man 
in industry **h to progress without limit in salary and prestige". 
_A COMPLETE PLAN_ "We have made limited application of the 'parallel 
ladder' plan. The highest rated non-supervisory engineering 
title is 'research engineer'. The salary schedule permits remuneration 
greater than the average paid to the first level of engineering 
supervision (engineering section head). We also have an 'engineering 
section head- research engineer' classification which has salary 
possibilities equivalent to that of a research engineer. Above this 
point there is no generally used parallel ladder.   "We also 
do a number of things to build up the prestige of the engineer as a 
'professional' 
and also to give public recognition to individual technical 
competence. {These include encouragement of, and assistance 
to, the engineer in preparation and publication of technical papers. 
We have two media for publicizing individual technical activity, a magazine 
widely distributed both within and without the company, and an 
information bulletin for engineering personnel distributed to the homes 
of all engineers.} Publicity is given to the award of patents to 
our egnineers and financial support is provided for individual membership 
in technical societies.   "A recent, and more pertinent action, 
has been the establishment of a technical staff reporting to the 
vice-president for Engineering. This function is staffed by engineers 
chosen for their technical competence and who have the title, member 
of the technical staff'. Salaries compare favorably with those paid 
to the first two or three levels of management. Additional symbols 
of status are granted, such as reserved parking, distinctive badge passes 
authorizing special privileges, and a difference in the treatment 
of financial progress through merit.   "We presently are involved 
in inaugurating a new development center. Operations of this nature 
offer the best opportunity to recognize scientific status. All scientific 
staff members will have the title, 'research-staff member'. 
The salary level of an individual within the group will reflect the 
scientific community's acceptance of him as an authority in his scientific 
field. Contrary to usual organization-position evaluations, 
the position to which research-staff members report administratively will 
not necessarily encompass the duties of the research-staff member, 
therefore, are not necessarily evaluated as highly.   "These 
recent steps do not offer the possibility of extension to the great number 
of senior engineers who have displayed technical competence. It 
is doubtful that the complete solution to the over-all problem can result 
entirely from company efforts. Fundamental to the difficulty of creating 
the desired prestige is the fact that, in the business community, 
prestige and status are conferred in proportion to the authority that 
one man has over others and the extent of which he participates in 
the management functions".

SIXTY MILES NORTH of New York City where the wooded hills 
of Dutchess County meet the broad sweep of the Hudson River there 
is a new home development called "Oakwood Heights". As a matter 
of fact you could probably find a new home development in every populated 
county in the country with three-bedroom ranch style cottages 
in the $14,000 range. But Oakwood Heights is unique in one particular 
**h its oil for heating is metered monthly to each home from a line 
that starts at a central storage point.   This is a pilot operation 
sponsored by a new entity chartered in Delaware as the Tri-State 
Pipeline Corporation, with principal offices in New York State. 
Its president is Otis M& Waters, partner in the law firm of Timen 
+ Waters, 5404 Chrysler Bldg&, New York City. Vice-president 
is Louis Berkman and the secretary-treasurer is Mark Ritter. 
Ritter is the builder of Oakwood Heights and president of Kahler-Craft 
Distributors, Inc&, Newburgh, N&Y&.   The idea 
of a central tank with lines to each house is not in itself a novelty. 
Not a year goes by but what several local companies in the U& S& 
and Canada, even overseas, write to FUELOIL + OIL HEAT to inquire 
if it's feasible and where it is being done. Its editors only 
knew of one example to point to, a public housing development of 278 
homes in New Haven described by John Schulz in the March, 1950 issue. 
This has survived the years but there has been considerable concern 
among the tenants over the fact that the oil was not metered. Rather 
the monthly total consumption was divided and charged on the basis 
of number of rooms and persons in the family.   Common complaints 
included "Mrs& Murphy" leaving her windows open all the time, 
a fresh air fan, or the family was visiting "Aunt Minnie" with 
the house shut up but they still paid the same rate for oil. As a 
result of that attitude, others have been discouraged from trying central 
distribution.   A new low capacity meter is the key that unlocks 
the situation at Oakwood Heights. Called a "Slo-Flo" meter 
it was designed for this job by Power Plus Industries of Los Angeles, 
a key individual being Don Nelson. Tri-State has acquired 
its exclusive distribution for the northern, principal heating states.

There's an advantage in having a firm like Tri-State headed 
by a lawyer. The earlier New Haven development was public housing, 
so it easily leaped over the problems met in a private venture. These 
have to do with property rights, municipal official attitudes and 
a host of others. In working out the practical legal conclusions President 
Waters was not thinking only of this pilot project, for it is 
planned to duplicate this program or system in other builder developments 
nationally.   It is always difficult, or at least time-consuming, 
to get approval of any kind of line under a public street, as one 
example. To overcome this, the builder lays and completes the street 
himself, then deeds it to the community while retaining a perpetual 
easement for the oil lines. When a family buys a home the title is subject 
to a perpetual easement to Tri-State. For the central storage, 
Tri-State buys one acre, Buries its tanks and simply holds permanent 
title to that piece. In other words, the whole storage and pipeline 
system does not belong to the homeowners nor to the town but rather 
to Tri-State.   How does Tri-State get its revenue from this 
plan? It leases the whole facility to a large oil company, at least 
large enough to have a strong credit position. This first test is 
being leased for ten years but future projects will require at least 
15 years. The amount paid by the oil company to Tri-State for the use 
of its oil distribution system and the privilege of supplying all 
the homes, is subject to negotiation but naturally must be profitable 
to both parties.   On this first venture the central storage is 
20,000 gallons, in two tanks, or an average of 400 gallons for each of 
the 50 homes. The supplier delivers at his convenience in transport 
loads, so as to maintain two-to-three weeks reserve supply against weather 
contingencies. However, that is not all he has to do. He must 
undertake complete servicing of the oilheating equipment to assure fine 
heating. In the present project the heating is by circulating hot water 
form Paragon boiler-burner units with summer-winter domestic hot 
water hookups. Again, the oil man must read the meters at such intervals 
as he finds best.   For this first development the supplier 
signing the lease is a major oil company but in turn the deal is being 
transferred for operation to its local fueloil distributor. The major 
gets the assured gallonage for the life of the lease and the distributor 
apparently can do well because delivery cost is low. 

#INITIAL 
CONSIDERATIONS#

The officers of the new corporation have naturally 
explored many angles, as well as personalities that might be affected. 
For example, the officials of Poughkeepsie town (township) where the 
project is located think highly of it because it simplifies their snow 
clearing problem. The central storage is near a main artery quite 
easy to reach with large transports on a short crescent swing, with fewer 
trucks in the residential streets.   The Public Service Commission 
has ruled that this is not a public utility, subject to 
their 
many regulations.   Several financial institutions, both banks 
and insurance companies, have been sounded out. They like it and would 
supply most of the capital because of the long term leases by strong 
oil companies.   The Government housing agencies consider it 
feasible with one special stipulation. There must be a restriction in 
the deed to provide that the customer may not be charged more than the 
current market price for the oil **h an obvious precaution, since the 
account is permanently wedded, just like with gas or electricity.

For a few details of the system **h the lines are 1-1/4'' 
<X-Tru-Coat,> a product of Republic Steel Corp&, and all lines 
are welded. They are laid a minimum of 24'' deep and in some 
areas four feet down, particularly under roads, to stay clear of all 
other piping such as water and sewers and to minimize shocks from heavy 
trucking. The meter is mounted high on the basement wall. Its figures 
are a half inch high and very easy to read, even into tenth gallons. 
It will accommodate firing rates as low as a half gallon an hour.

Ritter, the builder, is convinced that the total cost of all the 
heating systems plus the oil distribution system is no greater than 
would be gas heating systems in the houses plus their lines and meters. 
He believes that this is a sound approach to gas competition in builder 
developments where gas is available.   It would be pretty 
difficult to install a Tri-State system in old neighborhoods, and that's 
an understatement. The job of getting property easements and street 
easements and the acre for the tanks would become pretty discouraging. 
But in a new development where everything starts from scratch 
the solutions are simple. 

#FUTURE PLANS#

What does Tri-State actually 
want to do, now that it has the meters under franchise and certain 
phases of its piping system in the "patent applied for" stage? 
It wants to interest builders and oil companies in the idea of including 
its facility in their new home projects, by financing and installing 
the storage, piping and meters, and leasing these for 15 years, 
with renewal options, to a strong oil company. It may also work in one 
other way- by licensing its system patents and supplying the meters, 
letting the oil company or even the builder install the facilities.

This whole development is certain to be of interest to the readers, 
for the idea has so often been mentioned, somewhat wistfully. 
But it's too early yet to go visit Oakwood Heights. Only eight of 
the 50 houses were completed at the time of the editor's visit on 
June 8th; others were building. The big tanks were at the site but 
still sunning themselves. A big mechanical ditcher was running the trenches, 
and the town building inspector was paying a friendly, if curious, 
visit.   The oilheating industry is looking up, led by a revival 
of research and development. A primary ingredient in these fields 
is imagination, and Tri-State Pipeline Corporation deserves a 
very good mark.

EVERY YEAR about this time National Gargle Your Cooling 
System week rolls around. It pays in the long (hot) run to take good 
care of the water works. Do it this way for the summer gargle:

@ First, drain that old coolant down the storm sewer. Don't 
save the anti-freeze, even if it the expensive "permanent" type. 
The word means it won't boil away easily, nothing else. The rust 
inhibitors in the fluid are used up after one year, and you don't want 
to risk the rust that two years' use could mean. Pitch it out.

@ If a lot of rust shows in the drain, use a good flushing cleaner.

@ Then fill the system and add a rust inhibitor. Of 
course, you'll want to use the softest water you can in your radiators.

@ Now, check for leaks in your hoses and hose connections, 
around the freeze-out plugs, gaskets, water pump seals and heater 
fittings.   @ Next, run the engine and let it heat up so the thermostat 
opens, and then look for leaks again. Be sure the bugs and 
dirt are blown out of the radiator fins. Use the air hose for this job. 
Check the temperature gage and be sure it is working.   If you 
use one of the new year-round cooling system fluids such as "Dowguard" 
be sure to check it. Dow says that the fluid can be used now 
for two years. Check its inhibitor effectiveness before leaving it in 
during the summer.   Take precautions now, to be sure you avoid 
those unpleasant and costly heat breakdowns when the temperature zooms 
this summer.   {Don't let your mechanics} pull the thermostats 
out of those fueloil delivery trucks or installation rigs of yours. 
Spring and summer may be here officially, but those thermos stay 
in.   The fact is that removing and leaving out a thermostat from 
any water cooled vehicle, will greatly increase the fuel consumption, 
reduce power and contribute to spark plug fouling due to an accumulation 
of excessive carbon deposits on the insulators.   If you 
run into excess plug fouling on one truck, check to be sure that the rig 
has a thermostat. The thermostat is important to get your engine up 
to operating temperature quickly, and to keep it running at its most 
efficient temperature through the proper circulation of the coolant.

{Are you paying too much} for your truck insurance? There's 
a good chance you are doubling on some coverage, not taking discounts 
coming to you and not cutting some corners that can be cut.

Have a talk with your insurance agent. Be careful that you keep 
adequate coverage, but look for places to save money. First go over the 
type of coverage you now have. Look for these features which may mean 
you can save:   @ Duplicate coverage. Avoid doubling up 
on the same item. For example, don't pay in a truck policy for medical 
coverage that you may be paying for in a health and accident policy.

@ Does your policy have a lay-up clause? This means that 
if your insured vehicle is laid up for more than 30 days, insurance 
can be suspended and a proportionate return of your premium made to 
you. This applies to repair work or winter storage.   The figure 
five is important in insurance. With many company policies you get 
a fleet discount if you insure five or more rigs. This means either cars 
or trucks. Discounts run up to 2% of cost.   Usually premium 
reductions can be obtained by applying deductibles to your liability 
plan. For example: If your bodily injury claims start payment after 
the first $250, a 25% premium saving is often made. 
{I}n the period since the end of World War /2,- a period 
coinciding 
with merchandising demands for the colorful, the unusual, and the original 
in signs and displays- plastics have come on so strong that 
today 
they are the acknowledged leaders in the field. The importance of the 
sign industry to the plastics industry, however, is not in terms of 
volume alone. Designers of signs and displays have shown a refreshing 
approach to the adaptation of plastics that has influenced the workings 
of other industries. Many of today's developments in thermoforming 
stem from original work done with signs and displays; the art of 
preprinting in distortion was similarly perfected by the sign makers; 
and the reverse-surface decorating techniques now used for escutcheons, 
medallions, etc&, owes much to the field, as does the technology 
of designing with the light-transmitting properties of the transparent 
plastics.   There is much that many industries can continue to 
learn from some of the more recent developments described below. The 
concept of trans-illumination (as shown by the photo on p& 92), as just 
one example, offers an entirely new approach to lighting problems- 
no matter what industry is involved. 

#A VOLUME MARKET#

According 
to a recent <Wall Street Journal> survey, plastics units now 
account for more than 50% of all sign sales. Five years ago, they had 
only 10% of the market, with the remainder firmly entrenched in the 
stronghold of neon tubing. And it's far from the end for plastics. 
Industry sources are now estimating that 75% of the signs made during 
the 1960's will be of plastic construction. Evidence of this 
trend can best be seen in the recent activities of such leading companies 
in the field as Advance Neon Sign Co&, Los Angeles, Calif&. 
Four years ago, the company's entire line was devoted to neon 
signs; today, 85% is in plastics.   From the volume standpoint, 
the total market represented by the sign industry is impressive. Aggregate 
sales during 1960 reached approximately $500 million. Currently, 
there are some 6000 companies in the field, ranging from small firms 
with a handful of employees to major concerns having complete facilities 
for production of metal, electrical, and plastic components. 

#WHY 
THE TREND TO PLASTICS?#

What accounts for the rapid growth 
of plastics in the sign and display field? Out of many factors which 
might be cited, five are most important: _1._ Plastics combine 
such properties as built-in color, light weight, optional transparency 
or translucency, resistance to corrosion, as well as the ease of fabrication. 
_2._ Plastic signs are economical. According to one 
major producer, materials for a typical plastic sign are approximately 
25% less costly than for a comparable neon unit. Shipping cost is 
also reduced; a 3-by- 6-ft& plastic sign weighs about 120 lb&, 
compared to 275-300 lb& for neon. The weight advantage, plus greater 
durability of the plastic unit, yields a saving of about one-fifth 
in shipping. The lighter weight also means less costly supports and mountings 
are needed. Finally, maintenance costs on plastic signs are 
much lower than on fragile neon signs. _3._ They offer exceptional 
design freedom, making it 
possible to incorporate contours and details 
which give free range to the talents of the designer. Vacuum- and pressure-formed 
sheet plastics fill the gap between cardboard and molded 
plastics. Pre-decoration, 
low-cost molds, and the freedom to form large 
and small, thick and thin materials make plastics tailor-made for the 
industry. _4._ Plastics signs work around the clock. Internal 
illumination, protected from the elements, gives them powerful visual 
appeal at night; during daylight hours their brilliant colors command 
attention and interest. _5._ Advances in equipment and fabrication 
techniques give the sign or display manufacturer an extremely wide 
choice of production techniques, ranging from injection molding for 
intricate, smaller-size, mass-production signs (generally 5000 units is 
the minimum) to vacuum and pressure forming for larger signs of limited 
runs. Among the newest fabrication methods to enter the display field 
are expandable styrene molding and blow molding. _WHAT PLASTICS 
TO USE?_ For outdoor signs and displays, acrylic, with its outstanding 
optical characteristics, weather resistance and formability, strongly 
dominates the picture. At present, both the familiar cast acrylic 
and the newer extruded sheets are being used by sign manufacturers, 
with extruded now representing an estimated 10% of the total. (See 
panel, p& 166, for a comparison.)   Of interest is a recent 
announcement by Du Pont's 
Polychemicals Dept& of a new methyl methacrylate 
monomer designated as Monocite ~H 100, which was developed 
specifically for production of cast acrylic sheets for the sign and 
lighting industry. Sheeting cast from this material reportedly weighs 
only one-third as much as glass, is impervious to all kinds of weather, 
and will not yellow. Its high impact strength, even at low temperatures, 
resists chipping, cracking, and crazing, according to Du Pont.

Cellulose acetate butyrate is used extensively for vacuum-formed 
signs, background panels, and molded or formed letters because of its 
exceptional toughness, ease of forming, and excellent weathering properties. 
Its clarity and good optical properties are other important 
factors. New to the field is a duplex type butyrate laminate in which 
the two sheets of the laminate are of different color. Thermoforming 
the laminate and then sanding away the top layer is a quick and economical 
way to produce a two-color sign. (see ~MPl, Mar& 1961, 
p& 
98).   For specialized types of displays, such as large three-dimensional 
units reproducing a product, package, human or animal figures, 
etc&, reinforced plastics and rotationally molded vinyl plastisols 
are other materials frequently used.   A relative newcomer 
in 
outdoor signs is Mylar polyester film, now used as a printed overlay 
for trans-illuminated signs (see below).   For outdoor signs and 
displays, where the problem of weathering resistance is no longer a 
factor, the choice of plastics is almost unlimited. Here may be found 
regular and impact styrene, cellulose acetate, cellulose butyrate and 
cellulose propionate, acrylic, vinyl, expandable styrene foam, and polyethylene. 
The final choice of material depends upon such factors as 
costs, method of fabrication, degree of complexity, number of units 
required, time available for tooling, and projected life expectancy of 
the unit. Often, the finished sign or display incorporates several types 
of plastics and two or more fabricating techniques. 

#TRANS-ILLUMINATED 
BILLBOARDS#

One of the most significant advancements in design 
of plastics signs is the so-called trans-illuminated billboard, now 
being produced by several large sign manufacturers such as Advance 
Neon Sign Co&, Los Angeles, and Industrial Electric Inc&, 
New Orleans, La&.   The essential difference between the new 
trans-illuminated boards and existing billboards is that the former, 
constructed of translucent plastic panels, are lighted from within. 
With the source of light behind the copy, there is no loss of lumen output, 
as with conventional boards illuminated by means of reflected light. 
Also, the light sources are shielded from dirt and weather exposure 
and cannot obstruct the view of the sign.   The copy itself, 
including any text or illustrations, is reproduced in full color directly 
on a thin Mylar polyester film by a photo screen process. The 
film has an adhesive on the back which permits it to be stripped onto 
the acrylic panels forming the sign, and also to be stripped off for 
replacement by new copy as required. Spare sets of face panels simplify 
the change from one copy or message to another; new panels are exchanged 
for the old right in the field on a single trip. Panels with 
outdated copy are returned to the sign shop so a new message can be applied.

Signs of this type have already made their appearance 
in several larger cities, and others are on the way. It is believed that 
these boards will, within the next few years, replace many of the 
conventional flood-lighted boards now in use.   Trans-illuminated 
signs also show versatility in other directions. As used by Industrial 
Electric Inc&, the film panels are printed one at a time, as 
are 24-sheet posters. Thus the film can be applied to back-lighted translucent 
plastics faces; they can also be applied to opaque panels 
for use on cutouts, or they can be applied directly to painted bulletin 
faces. In this way, the sign maker has an economical means for displaying 
uniform copy on different sign media.   Recently Industrial 
Electric unveiled another new development made possible by modern 
plastic materials- a revolving spectacular sign. Comprised of 16 
triangular trans-illuminated plastic sections, it makes it possible to 
combine three different signs in a single unit. The triangles automatically 
revolve in a cycle which permits 9 sec& of viewing time for 
each poster subject. Sixteen panels, each slightly more than 1-1/2 ft& 
wide, make up the 25-ft& length of the sign. 

#CHANGEABLE LETTERS 
FILL MANY NEEDS#

Perhaps the best way to indicate the versatility 
of design that characterizes the use of plastics in signs and displays 
would be to look at what is happening in only one of the areas in this 
complex field- changeable signs.   Signs are meant to convey 
a message, and in most cases, this requires words and letters. Frequently, 
the message must be changed at intervals to feature new products, 
price changes, etc&. The huge market for changeable signs has spurred 
a universal demand for individual plastic letters, in all shapes 
and sizes- and a number of companies are set up to supply them. Here 
are some of the newer items currently available:   Poster Products 
Inc&, Chicago, Ill&: a changeable copy and display 
sign 
which consists of an extruded impact styrene background in choice of 
colors, onto which are mounted snap-in letters, figures, or words screened 
on acetate or other types of sheet stock. The background, which 
is available 
in various widths and continuous lengths, is extruded with 
parallel undercut grooves which grip the flexible letters securely.

The Adaptaplex Co&, Beaverton, Ore&; letters molded 
of butyrate, available in several sizes in either red or black. Ideal 
for merchandising use, they are weather-resistant, and have mounting 
pegs on the back which fit into openings in a vacuum-formed waffle-pattern 
background panel.   For large letters, <e&g&> thermoformed 
of acrylic or butyrate, there are other techniques. For example, 
in a typical store installation, fifty 24-in& and six 36-in& red 
acrylic letters were mounted against a white painted wood background. 
The fact that even the larger letters weighed only 5 lb& each made 
it possible to secure the letters to the building through clear acrylic 
angle brackets cemented to the letters. Stainless steel screws were 
used to minimize corrosion stains. For mounting to corrugated plastic 
backgrounds, very small holes may be drilled in the sides of the letters 
and stainless steel wire threaded through the openings, its ends 
twisted behind the panels.   Large injection-molded letters are 
also available for sign installations. Wagner Sign Service Inc&, 
Chicago, for example, supplies them in several colors, in heights of 
4, 6, 8, 10, and 17 inches. They are molded of a special weather-resistant 
formulation of Tenite butyrate. Also available from this company 
are Snug-Grip Plasti-Bars, extruded of transparent acrylic material, 
which may be cemented to any corrugated acrylic background material. 
Made in lengths from 3 to 10 ft&, the bars are shaped in cross 
section to provide a secure fit for the tapered slots molded in back 
of the letters.   Still another approach to the changeable letter 
type of sign is a modular unit introduced by Merritt Products, Azusa, 
Calif&. This vacuum formed sign is comprised of 27-in& (or 
smaller) panels formed of 0.080-in& clear butyrate sheet stock, masked 
and sprayed on the rear side. Finished signs are produced by sliding 
the separate letter panels into channels of 0.025-in& aluminum, 
which may be mounted to various surfaces. The sheets are extruded of 
Tenite butyrate by Jet Specialties Co&, Los Angeles, Calif&.

On large-area units, where additional structural requirements 
are imposed, one recent approach utilizes modular extruded or formed 
channels (<e&g&> right-angled corrugations) of the acrylic or butyrate. 
Joined side by side, such channels make possible construction 
of continuous two-dimensional luminous areas up to 50 ft& high and 
of unlimited width. Letters may be wired to the face of the combined 
channels, painted on the first surface, or handled in other ways. 

#NEW RULE NO& 2: DON'T BUILD FROM THE OUTSIDE IN- TRY TO BUILD 
FROM 
THE INSIDE OUT#

Don't insert your components into fixed openings, 
they may or may not fit; position your components before you close 
them in. For example:   Don't wall in your kitchen before 
you hang the wall cabinets and set the appliances. It's a lot quicker 
and easier to dimension the kitchen to fit the cabinets and erect 
the end wall after they are all in place.   Set your bathtub before 
you close in the end of the bathroom. Don't try to wrestle a 
400-~lb tub **f through a narrow doorway.   Finish your plumbing 
before you frame it in (most economical framing is a thin non-bearing 
partition on either side of the pipes).   Finish installing and 
connecting up your furnace and your water heater before you wall them 
in. There is no better way to waste time than trying to install a 
furnace in a finished **f closet.   Don't position your studs 
before you insert your windows in conventional construction; that way 
you may pay more to shim the window into place than you paid for the 
window. You can save all that shimming time if you set your windows 
in one, two, three order- first the stud on one side, then the window, 
then the stud on the other side.   Install your disappearing 
stair (or stairs) to the attic and finish your overhead ducts before 
you drywall the ceiling.   Don't close in your house until everything 
has been carried in. Last wall Bob Schmitt erects is the wall 
between the house and garage. That way he can truck his parts right 
indoors and unload them under the roof.   No auto maker would 
dream of putting the head on the engine before he fitted the pistons 
in the block. And trailer makers, those most industrialized and therefore 
most efficient of homebuilders, say they save hundreds of dollars 
by always building from the inside out. 

#NEW RULE NO& 3 RETHINK 
EVERYTHING 
TO GET ALL THE BIG SAVINGS THE REVOLUTION IN MATERIALS HANDLING 
OFFERS YOU#

This revolution is the biggest build-better-for-less 
news of all, because **h _1._ It makes it easy to handle much heavier 
units, so you can plan to build with much bigger and heavier prefabricated 
components like those shown in the pictures alongside. _2._ 
It makes materials handling the only construction cost that (like 
earthmoving and roadbuilding) should be lower today than in 1929. _3._ 
It changes the answers to "Who should do what, and where"? 
It lessens the need for costly on-site fabrication and increases 
the chance for shop fabrication, where almost everything can be made 
better and cheaper. _4._ It changes the answers on when to do what 
at the site. For example, instead of putting in your driveways last 
(as many builders do) you can now save money by putting them in first. 
Instead of closing the house in first (as most builders do) you can 
now cut your costs by not closing it in until you have to (<see 
~p 
121>). _5._ It changes the answers on builder-dealer relations. 
Not so long ago many builders were finding they could cut their costs 
by "buying direct" and short-cutting the dealer. But now many of 
these same builders are finding they can cut their costs more by teaming 
up with a dealer who has volume enough to afford the most efficient 
specialized equipment 
to deliver everything just where it is needed- 
drywall inside the house, siding along the sides, trusses on the walls, 
roofing on the roof, etc&.   Says Clarence Thompson: "We 
dealers must earn our mark-up by performing a service for the builder 
cheaper than he could do it himself". The revolution now under 
way in materials handling makes this much easier. _THE REVOLUTION 
IS WELL UNDER WAY, BUT MUCH MORE REMAINS TO BE DONE_ Five years ago 
a HOUSE + HOME Round Table cosponsored by the Lumber Dealers' 
Research Council reported unhappily:   "Only one lumber 
dealer in ten is equipped to handle unit loads; only one box car 
in eight has the wide doors needed for unit loads; only one producer 
in a hundred is equipped to package and ship unit loads; only one builder 
in a thousand is equipped to receive unit loads.   "So 
from raw materials to finished erection the costs of materials handling 
(most of it inefficient) add up to one-fourth of the total construction 
cost of housing".   "That HOUSE + HOME Round Table 
was the real starting point for today's revolution in materials 
handling", says Clarence Thompson, long chairman of the Lumber Dealers' 
Research Council. "It made our whole industry recognize 
the need for a new kind of teamwork between manufacturer, carrier, equipment 
maker, dealer, and builder, all working together to cut the cost 
of materials handling. Before that we lumber dealers were working 
almost single-handed on the problem". _HERE IS WHERE THINGS STAND 
TODAY:_ _1._ Almost all of the 3,000 lumber dealers who cater 
primarily to the new-house market and supply 90% of this year's new 
houses are mechanized. There are few areas left where a builder cannot 
find a dealer equipped to save him money by delivering everything 
at lower cost just where his workmen will need it. _2._ Practically 
all bulky housing products can now be ordered in standard units palletized 
or unitized for mechanical handling- including lumber, asphalt 
shingles, glass block, face brick, plaster, lime, hardboard, gypsum 
wallboard and sheathing, cement, insulation sheathing, floor tile, acoustical 
tile, plaster base, and asbestos shingles. _3._ Truck and 
materials-handling equipment makers now offer specialized units to 
meet almost every homebuilding need. For some significant new items 
see the pictures. _4._ More than 50% of all lumber is unitized; 
an ~NLRDA survey found that at least 492 lumber mills will 
strap their shipments for mechanized handling. Of these, 376 said they 
make no extra charge for strapping in standard units, because they 
save enough on mechanized carloading to offset their strapping cost. 
Most of the others 
will swallow their 50@ to $3 charge rather than lose 
a good customer. "With a 15,500-~lb fork-lift, dealers can unload 
unitized lumber from wide-door box cars for 30@/~mbf compared 
with $1.65 or more to unload loose lumber one piece at a time", says 
James Wright of ~NLRDA. _5._ Lumber dealers and lumber 
manufacturers have agreed on a standard unit for unitized shipments- 
48'' wide by a nominal 30'' high (or six McCracken packets 
24'' wide by nominal 7'' high). These units make it easy to 
load as much as 48,000 ~bd ~ft (say 120,000 ~lb in a 50' box 
car- much more than the average for loose-loaded cars. _6._ The 
railroads have responded by adding 20,000 more box cars with doors 12' 
or wider for forklift unloading (a 21% increase while the total 
number of box cars was falling 6%) and by cutting their freight rates 
twice on lumber shipped in heavily loaded cars. First was a 1958 cut 
of more than 50% on that portion of the load in excess of 40,000 
~lb; later came a 1961 cut on the West Coast (still pending elsewhere) 
of 7@/~cwt on 70,000 ~lb-plus carloads (which works out to 
more than $4/~mbf on that portion of the load in excess of 70,000 
~lb). _7._ More unitized lumber is being shipped on flat cars, 
and ~NLRDA studies show that flat cars loaded with the new Type 
6-~B floating-load method can be unloaded for at little at 5.4@/~mbf. 
For long hauls these shipments should be protected with water-proof 
paper. This costs from 75@ to $2.30/~mbf, but the cover can 
pay off if the lumber is to be stored in the open. _THESE CARRIERS 
CUT HANDLING COSTS FOR THE DEALER- AND THE BUILDER_ Says ~NRLDA's 
James Wright: "Since 1958 carriers that move material 
from the yard to the job site have undergone more radical changes 
than any of the dealer's other equipment".   The reason: today's 
components and lumber packages are far too bulky to be handled 
by a truckdriver and a helper. So manufacturers have pioneered a new 
type of vehicle- the self-unloading carrier. It cuts the lumber dealer's 
cost because it takes only one man- the driver- to unload 
it, and because it unloads in a fraction of the time and at a fraction 
of the cost of hand unloading. and it helps the builder because it 
can handle a more efficiently packaged load, can deliver it to the best 
spot (in some cases, right on the roof or inside the house), and never 
takes any of the builder's high-priced labor to help unload it.

Says Wright: "Our survey shows that one third of the 
retail 
dealers plan to increase the mechanization of their materials handling 
in the coming two years. And most of the gain will be in self-unloading 
vehicles". 

#NEW RULE NO& 4: RESTUDY WHAT YOUR MEN DO, 
TO HELP THEM WASTE LESS OF THE TIME YOU PAY FOR#

Half the manhours 
you pay for on most jobs are wasted because the job was not planned right, 
so the right tools were not handy at the right place at the right 
time, or the right materials were not delivered to the handiest spots 
or materials were not stacked in the right order for erection, or you 
bought cheap materials that took too long to fit, or your workmen had 
to come back twice to finish a job they could have done on one trip.

Even "America's most efficient builder", Bob Schmitt 
of Berea, hopes to cut his labor costs another $2,000 per house as a 
result of the time-+-motion studies now being completed on his operation 
by industrial efficiency engineers from the Stanley Works. Already 
this study has suggested ways to cut his foundation manhours from 
170 to 105 by eliminating idle time and wasted motion.   Builder 
Eddie Carr of Washington, past president of ~NAHB, cut his bricklaying 
costs $150 a house by adopting the "~SCR masonry process" 
worked out after careful time-+-motion studies by the Structural 
Clay Products Research Foundation to help bricklayers do better 
work for less. A midwestern builder cut his labor costs per thousand 
bricks from $81 to $43.50 by adopting this same process, cut them another 
$7.50 to $36 by buying his bricks in convenient, easy-to-spot 100-brick 
packages. The ~SCR process, with its precision corner-posts, 
its precision guide lines, its working level scaffold, and its hand-level 
brick supply takes eight manhours to get set, but once ready 
it makes it easy for bricklayers to lay a thousand bricks a day. See 
<page 156>.   One good way to cut your labor waste is to make 
sure you are using just the right number of men in each crew. Reports 
Jim Lendrum: "By studying men on the job, we found that two men- 
a carpenter and a helper- can lay a floor faster than three. We 
found that three men- two carpenters and a helper- can put up wall 
panels or trusses more economically than four men- because four men 
don't make two teams; they make one inefficient three-men-and-a-helper 
team. We found that wherever you can use two teams on a job, 
five men, not four, is the magic number".   No house was ever 
built that could not have been built better for less if the work had 
been better planned and the work better scheduled. 

#NEW RULE NO& 
5: DON'T WASTE ANY 10@-A-MINUTE TIME ON GREEN LUMBER TO SAVE 3@ 
A STUD#

This is the most penny-wise, pound-foolish chisel a builder 
can commit.   Green lumber was all very well back in the days 
of wet plaster, when the framing lumber was bound to swell and then 
shrink as tons of water dried out the gypsum. But now that all production 
builders build with drywall and all smart builders build with panels, 
green lumber is an anachronism you cannot afford.   Green 
studs cost about 65@; dry studs cost less than 3@ more. So if 
a green stud makes a carpenter or a drywall finisher or anybody else waste 
even 20 seconds, the green stud becomes more expensive than a dry 
stud.

There comes a time in the lives of most of us when we want to 
be alone. Not necessarily to be off all by ourselves, but away from the 
crowds and common happenstance. If you've travelled in Europe a 
time or two, it is quite certain that you've had that wanting-to-be-alone 
feeling or that you will get it on your next visit across the Atlantic. 
Following a guide, and gratefully so, is an excellent way to 
see all the important places when everything is strange and new. However, 
after you've seen all the historical piazzas and plazas, the 
places and forums, the churches and museums, the palaces and castles, 
and begin to feel at home in the capitals of Europe, you'll want to 
change your course and follow the by-roads at will, far from the market 
places.   The champagne at Troyes, the traditional capital 
of the champagne country, has more ambrosial taste somehow than it has 
at a sidewalk cafe on the Rue de la Paix or at Tour d'Argent. You 
can relive history and follow, in fancy, the Crusaders in their quest 
for the Holy Grail as they sail out from Brindisi, an ancient 
town in the heel of Italy's boot. And you don't meet the folks from 
home in Northwest Spain which has remained almost untouched by time 
and tourists since the Middle Ages. Time stands still as you climb 
the narrow, stone stairways in tiny villages clinging to steep mountain 
slopes or wander through story-book towns, perched atop lofty crags, 
their faces turned to the sea. They've been there since the days 
of the Moors and the Saracens. And what better way to end a day 
than by dining with artists and gourmets in a squat but charming fisherman's 
village on the Mediterranean?   An almost too-simple-to-be-true 
way to set forth on such adventures is just to put yourself 
behind the wheel of a car and head for the open road.   For those 
who need or want and can afford another car, buying one and driving 
it on the grand tour, then shipping it home, is one popular plan for 
a do-it-yourself pilgrimage. Then, of course, there are those of us 
who either do not want or need or cannot afford another car. The answer 
to this diathesis is to pick up a telephone and arrange to rent one. 
It is that elemental.   Almost any travel agent will reserve 
a car for you. You can call one of the car rental services directly 
(Hertz, Avis, Auto-Europe Nationalcar Rental, and others) and ask 
them to reserve a car of your choice, and some transportation lines 
offer this service as well. With few exceptions, your car will be waiting 
for you at dockside, airport, railroad station or hotel when you 
arrive, oftentimes at no additional cost. You can wait, of course, until 
you arrive in Europe before renting your car. The disadvantages 
to this method are that you may not have as great a choice of models 
readily available or you may have to wait a few days or, during the busy 
tourist season, when cars are in great demand, you might find it fairly 
difficult to get a car at all. Since charges are relatively the 
same, reserving a car before you leave for Europe will assure you of 
having one on tap when you want it.   For those who plan to travel 
to Europe by one route and return by another some agencies offer 
a service whereby you can pick up a car in one city on arrival and leave 
it in another city, or even another country, when you are ready to 
return home. At some cities, this pick-up and delivery service is without 
additional charge, and, if you are budget-wise, when you are planning 
your itinerary, you will take advantage of these free delivery 
and collection stations in major cities within the larger European countries.

International Touring Documents are usually provided 
with the car as are road maps and touring data. A valid American 
driving license is accepted in all countries except Portugal, Spain, 
Yugoslavia and Eastern 
Europe. If you plan to visit any of these countries, 
you can obtain your International Driving Permit before you 
leave at a nominal fee- around $3.00. Your insurance, too, with 
most agencies, is provided with the car, covering comprehensive fire, 
theft, liability and collision with a deductible clause which varies 
in different countries. If you would feel happier with full collision 
insurance, there is a small additional charge, again varying from country 
to country and depending on the term of such insurance. The average 
charge for this additional insurance coverage is roughly $1.00 a day. 
The charge is variable, however, and goes as low as 50@ a day in 
Ireland and as high as $2.00 a day in Greece.   Rental fees 
are variable, too, throughout the countries of Europe. There are as 
many rates as there are countries and models of cars available. As in 
the United States, there is a flat fee-per-day rental charge plus 
a few cents per kilometer driven, and the per-day rate drops if the car 
is retained for a week. It drops again after fifteen and/or twenty-one 
days.   It is well to bear in mind that gasoline will cost from 
80@ to 90@ for the equivalent of a United States gallon and 
while you might prefer a familiar Ford, Chevrolet or even a Cadillac, 
which are available in some countries, it is probably wiser to choose 
the smaller European makes which average thirty, thirty-five and 
even forty miles to the gallon.   Your choice of model will undoubtedly 
be governed by the number of people travelling in your group. 
With the exception of the sports cars, even the quite tiny sedans will 
seat four passengers if you are willing to sacrifice comfort and luggage 
space for really economical transportation. There is a large variety 
of models to choose from in most countries, however, including 6-passenger 
sedans and station wagons and the rental fee isn't all that 
much greater than for the wee sedans.   The basic costs are generally 
pretty much the same regardless of the agency through which you 
reserve your car, but some of them offer supplementary advantages. 
There is the free intra-city "rent it here, leave it there" service, 
as an example, the free delivery and collection at the airport, dockside 
or your hotel, luggage racks, touring documents and information 
and other similar services. A little investigation by telephone or reading 
the travel ads in the newspapers and magazines will give you these 
pertinent details on the additional money-saving benefits. The investigation 
will be well worth your time.   All model cars are not 
available in all countries. Quite naturally, there is a greater availability 
of those models which are manufactured within a specific country. 
If you would like to start your tour in Italy, where the rental 
fees are actually the lowest in Europe, Fiats in all sizes are available, 
as are Alfa Romeo Giulietta models. If you wish to budget 
closely on transportation, saving your extra dollars to indulge in luxuries, 
one agency lists the small Fiat 500 at only $1.26 a day plus 3@ 
a kilometer and the Fiat 2100 Station 
Wagon, seating six, at just 
$1.10 a day and 10-1/2@ a kilometer. If you will be using your car 
more than fifteen days, which isn't all unlikely, the daily rates 
drop quite sharply to 86@ a day for the Fiat 500 and to an infinitesimal 
30@ a day for the Fiat 2100 Station Wagon. With six in the 
group, the cost comes to just a nickel a day per person on the daily 
fee.   In the majority of countries, however, the rates range from 
$3.00 to $3.50 a day for the smaller sedans and graduate up to $7.00 
and $8.00 a day for the larger, luxury European models, with the rate 
per kilometer driven starting at 3@ and going up as high as 12@. 
The same model car might be available in six or eight countries, yet 
not two countries will have the same rate either for the daily rate 
or rate per kilometer driven. The variations are not too great. Rates 
for American cars are somewhat higher, ranging from about $8.00 a day 
up to $14.00 a day for a Chevrolet Convertible, but the rate per 
kilometer driven is roughly the same as for the larger European models. 
Rates in Greece and Finland are fairly high, actually the highest 
in Europe, and, surprisingly enough, they are also quite high in Ireland.

If you are planning to tour Europe for longer than a 
month, it might be wise for you to lease a car. The actual over-all 
cost, for the first month, will perhaps not be too much lower than the 
rental charges for the same period of time, but you will receive a new 
car. You will be entitled to all the advantages of a new car owner, 
which includes the factory guarantee and the services valid at authorized 
dealers throughout Europe. Further, there is no mileage charge 
or mileage limitations when you lease a car, and you pay only the flat 
monthly rate plus a nominal charge for documents and insurance since 
the car is registered and insured individually for your trip. There is 
a fairly wide selection of models of English, German and French manufacture 
from which you can choose from the very small Austin 7, Citroe^n 
2 ~CV, Volkswagens, Renaults to the 6-passenger Simca 
Beaulieu. Leasing a car is not as common or as popular as renting a 
car in Europe, but for long periods it will be unquestionably more economical 
and satisfactory. After the first month, rates are considerably 
less, averaging only about $60 a month for most 4- and 5-passenger 
models.   There are reasons for some people not wanting to rent 
cars and going on the do-it-yourself plan. For one thing, the driver 
usually sees less and has less fun than his passengers since it becomes 
pretty necessary for him to keep at least one eye on the road. Then, 
too, European drivers have reputations for being somewhat crazy on 
the road and some Americans are not particularly keen on getting mixed 
up with them. Still there is a way for those who want to see some 
of the back country of Europe by car. The way is to rent a chauffeur-driven 
car. It isn't as expensive as most people believe it to be.

Your chauffeur's expenses will average between $7.00 to $12.00 
a day, but this charge is the same whether you rent a 7-passenger 
Cadillac limousine or a 4-passenger Peugeot or Fiat 1800. The big 
spread is in the charge for each kilometer driven, being governed by 
the rate at which gasoline is consumed. Since most European cars average 
more miles per gallon of gasoline than American cars, it naturally 
follows that the cost per kilometer for these models will be less, 
but the greater seating capacity of the large American cars will equalize 
this, provided your group is sufficiently large to fill a 7-passenger 
limousine.   The fees for the rental of chauffeur-driven cars 
vary in the different countries in the same manner as they do for 
the drive-yourself cars. However, whether you arrange to have a European 
or American model, if you rent a car with the proper seating capacity 
in relation to the number of people in your party, your transportation 
expense will average very close to $10.00 per day per passenger. 
This will include your helpful, English-speaking chauffeur and a 
drive of an average of 150 kilometers in any one day. If you drive greater 
distances than that, you'll just be skimming the surface and will 
never discover the enchantment, fascination and beauty which lured 
you in the first place to explore the hinterlands. Of course, if you 
want to throw all caution to the winds and rent an Imperial or Cadillac 
limousine just for you and your bride, you'll have a memorable 
tour, but it won't be cheap, and it is not recommended unless you own 
a producing oil well or you've had a winner in the Irish Sweepstakes.

In American romance, almost nothing rates higher than what the 
movie men have called "meeting cute"- that is, boy-meets-girl 
seems more adorable if it doesn't take place in an atmosphere of correct 
and acute boredom. Just about the most enthralling real-life example 
of meeting cute is the Charles MacArthur-Helen Hayes saga: 
reputedly all he did was give her a handful of peanuts, but he said 
simultaneously, "I wish they were emeralds". Aside from the comico-romantico 
content here, a good linguist-anthropologist could readily 
pick up a few other facts, especially if he had a little more of the 
conversation to go on.   The way MacArthur said his line- if 
you had the recorded transcript of a professional linguist- would 
probably have gone like this: **f Primary stresses on emeralds and 
wish; note pitch 3 (pretty high) on emeralds but with a slight degree 
of drawl, one degree of oversoftness **h. Conclusions: The people 
involved (and subsequent facts bear me out here) knew clearly the relative 
values of peanuts and emeralds, both monetary and sentimental. 
And the drawling, oversoft voice of flirtation, though fairly overt, 
was still well within the prescribed gambit of their culture.   In 
other words, like automation machines designed to work in tandem, they 
shared the same programming, a mutual understanding not only of English 
words, but of the four stresses, pitches, and junctures that can 
change their meaning from black to white. At this point, unfortunately, 
romance becomes a regrettably small part of the picture; but consider, 
if you can bear it, what might have happened if MacArthur, for 
some perverse, undaunted reason, had made the same remark to an Eskimo 
girl in Eskimo. To her peanuts and emeralds would have been just 
so much blubber. The point- quite simply- is this: words they 
might have had; but communication, no.   This basic principle, 
the first in a richly knotted bundle, was conveyed to me by Dr& Henry 
Lee Smith, Jr&, at the University of Buffalo, where he heads 
the world's first department of anthropology and linguistics. A 
brisk, amusing man, apparently constructed on an ingenious system of 
spring-joints attuned to the same peppery rhythm as his mind, Smith 
began his academic career teaching speech to Barnard girls- a project 
considerably enlivened by his devotion to a recording about "a young 
rat named Arthur, who never could make up his mind". Later, he 
became one of the central spirits of the Army Language Program and 
the language school of Washington's Foreign Service Institute. 
It was there, in the course of trying to prepare new men for the "culture 
shock" they might encounter in remote overseas posts, that he 
first began to develop a system of charting the "norms of human communication".

To the trained ear of the linguist, talk has always 
revealed a staggering quantity of information about the talker- 
such things as geographical origin and/or history, socio-economic identity, 
education. It is only fairly recently, however, that linguists 
have developed a systematic way of charting voices on paper in a way 
that tells even more about the speakers and about the success or failure 
of human communication between two people. This, for obvious reasons, 
makes their techniques superbly useful in studying the psychiatric 
interview, so useful, in fact, that they have been successfully used 
to suggest ways to speed diagnosis and to evaluate the progress of therapy.

In the early 1950's, Smith, together with his distinguished 
colleague, George Trager (so austerely academic he sometimes 
fights his own evident charm), and a third man with the engaging name 
of Birdwhistell (Ray), agreed on some basic premises about the three-part 
process that makes communication: (1) words or language (2) paralanguage, 
a set of phenomena including laughing, weeping, voice breaks, 
and "tone" of voice, and (3) kinesics, the technical name for 
gestures, facial expressions, and body shifts- nodding or shaking the 
head, "talking" with one's hands, et cetera.   Smith's 
first workout with stresses, pitches, and junctures was based on mother, 
which spells, in our culture, a good deal more than bread alone. 
For example, if you are a reasonably well-adjusted person, there are 
certain ways that are reasonable and appropriate for addressing your mother. 
The usual U&S& norm would be: **f Middle pitches, slight 
pause (juncture) before mother, slight rise at the end. The symbols 
of mother's status, here, are all usual for culture U&S&A&. 
Quite other feelings are evidenced by this style: **f Note the 
drop to pitch 1 (the lowest) on mother with no rise at the end of the 
sentence; this is a "fade" ending, and what you have here is a 
downtalking style of speech, expressing something less than conventional 
respect for mother. Even less regard for mom and mom's apple pie 
goes with: **f In other words, the way the speaker relates to mother 
is clearly indicated. And while the meaning of the words is not in 
this instance altered, the quality of communication in both the second 
and third examples is definitely impaired. An accompanying record 
of paralanguage factors for the second example might also note a 
throaty 
rasp. With this seven-word sentence- though the speaker undoubtedly 
thought he was dealing only with the subject of food- he was telling 
things about himself and, in the last two examples, revealing that 
he had departed from the customs of his culture.   The joint investigations 
of linguistics and psychiatry have established, in point 
of fact, that no matter what the subject of conversation is or what words 
are involved, it is impossible for people to talk at all without telling 
over and over again what sort of people they are and how they relate 
to the rest of the world. Since interviewing is the basic therapeutic 
and diagnostic instrument of modern psychiatry, the recording of 
interviews for playbacks and study has been a boost of Redstone proportions 
in new research and training. Some of the earliest recordings, 
made in the 1940's, demonstrated that psychiatrists reacted immediately 
to anger and anxiety in the sound track, whereas written records 
of the same interview offered far fewer cues to therapy which- if 
they were at all discernible in print- were picked up only by the most 
skilled and sensitive experts. In a general way, psychiatrists were 
able to establish on a wide basis what many of them had always felt- 
that the most telling cues in psychotherapy are acoustic, that such 
things as stress and nagging are transmitted by sound alone and not 
necessarily by words.   At a minimum, recording- usually on tape, 
which is now in wide professional use- brings the psychiatric interview 
alive so that the full range of emotion and meaning can be explored 
repeatedly by the therapist or by a battery of therapists. Newest 
to this high-powered battery are the experts in linguistics who have 
carried that minimum to a new level. By adding a systematic analysis 
with symbols to the typed transcripts of interviews, they have supplied 
a new set of techniques for the therapist. Linguistic charting of 
the transcribed interview flags points where the patient's voice departs 
from expected norms. It flags such possible breakdowns of communication 
as rehearsed dialogue, the note of disapproval, ambivalence 
or ambiguity, annoyance, resentment, and the disinclination to speak at 
all- this last often marked by a fade-in beginning of sentences.

Interpretation, naturally, remains the role of the therapist, but 
orientation- not only the patient's vocal giveaways of geographical 
and socio-economic background, but also vocal but non-verbal giveaways 
of danger spots in his relationship to people- can be considerably 
beefed up by the linguist. His esoteric chartings of the voice alert 
the therapist to areas where deeper probing may bring to light underlying 
psychological difficulties, making them apparent first to the 
therapist and eventually to the patient. In one now-historic first 
interview, 
for example, the transcript (reproduced from the book, <The 
First Five Minutes>) goes like this: **f The therapist's level 
tone is bland and neutral- he has, for example, avoided stressing 
"you", which would imply disapproval; or surprise, which would 
set the patient apart from other people. The patient, on the other 
hand, is far from neutral; aside from her specifically regional accent, 
she reveals by the use of the triad, "irritable, tense, depressed", 
a certain pedantic itemization that indicates she has some familiarity 
with literary or scientific language (i&e&, she must have 
had at least a high-school education), and she is telling a story she 
has mentally rehearsed some time before. Then she catapults into "everything 
and everybody", putting particular violence on "everybody", 
indicating to the linguist that this is a spot to flag- that 
is, it is not congruent to the patient's general style of speech up 
to this point. Consequently, it is referred to the therapist for attention. 
He may then very well conclude that "everybody" is probably 
not the true target of her resentment. Immediately thereafter, the 
patient fractures her rehearsed story, veering into an oversoft, breathy, 
sloppily articulated, "I don't feel like talking right now".

Within the first five minutes of this interview it is apparent 
to the therapist that "everybody" truthfully refers to the woman's 
husband. She says later, but still within the opening five minutes, 
"I keep thinking of a divorce but that's another emotional death".

The linguistic and paralinguistic signals of misery are 
all present in the voice chart for this sentence; so are certain 
signals that she does not accept divorce. By saying "a<noth>er emotional 
death", she reveals that there has been a previous one, although 
she has not described it in words. This the therapist may pursue 
in 
later questioning. The phrase, "emotional death", interesting and, 
to a non-scientific mind, rather touching, suggests that this woman 
may have some flair for words, perhaps even something of the temperament 
regrettably called "creative".   Since the psychiatric interview, 
like any other interview, depends on communication, it is significant 
to note that the therapist in this interview was a man of marked 
skill and long experience. His own communication apparatus operated 
superbly, and Lillian Ross readers will note instantly its total 
lack of resemblance to the blunted, monumentally unmeshed mechanism of 
Dr& Blauberman. Interestingly enough- although none of the real-life 
therapists involved could conceivably compare with Blauberman- 
when groups of them began playing back interviews, they discovered 
any number of ways in which they wanted to polish their own interview 
techniques; almost everyone, on first hearing one of his own sessions 
on tape, expressed some desire to take the whole thing over again.

Yet, in spite of this, intensive study of the taped interviews 
by teams of psychotherapists and linguists laid bare the surprising fact 
that, in the first five minutes of an initial interview, the patient 
often reveals as many as a dozen times just what's wrong with him; 
to spot these giveaways the therapist must know either intuitively 
or scientifically how to listen. Naturally, the patient does not say, 
"I hate my father", or "Sibling rivalry is what bugs me". 
What he <does> do 
is give himself away by communicating information over 
and above the words involved. Some of the classic indicators, as described 
by Drs& Pittenger, Hockett, and Danehy in <The First 
Five Minutes>, are these: _AMBIGUITY OF PRONOUNS:_ Stammering 
or repetition of <I, you, he, she>, et cetera may signal 
ambiguity 
or uncertainty. On the other hand significant facts may be concealed- 
<she> may mean <I>; or <everybody>, as it did with the tense 
and irritable woman mentioned before, may refer to a specific person. 
The word that is <not> used can be as important as the word that 
<is> used; therapist and/or linguist must always consider the alternatives. 
When someone says, for example, "They took ~X rays to 
see that there was nothing wrong with me", it pays to consider how 
this statement would normally be made. (This patient, in actuality, 
was a neurasthenic who had almost come to the point of accepting the 
fact 
that it was not her soma but her psyche that was the cause of her difficulty.) 
**h Amateur linguists note here that Pursewarden, in Durrell's 
Alexandria Quartet, stammered when he spoke of his wife, which 
is hardly surprising in view of their disastrous relationship.

@ She was just another freighter from the States, and she seemed 
as commonplace as her name. She was the <John Harvey,> one 
of those Atlantic sea-horses that had sailed to Bari to bring beans, 
bombs, and bullets to the U&S& Fifteenth Air Force, to Field 
Marshal Montgomery's Eighth Army then racing up the calf of the 
boot of Italy in that early December of 1943.   The <John Harvey> 
arrived in Bari, a port on the Adriatic, on November 28th, 
making for Porto Nuovo, which, as the name indicates, was the ancient 
city's new and modern harbor. Hardly anyone ashore marked her as 
she anchored stern-to off Berth 29 on the mole. If anyone thought 
of the <John Harvey,> it was to observe that she was straddled by 
a pair of ships heavily laden with high explosive and if they were hit 
the <John Harvey> would likely be blown up with her own ammo and 
whatever else it was that she carried.   Which was poison gas. 
##

It had required the approval of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
before the <John Harvey> could be loaded with 100 tons of 
mustard gas and despatched to the Italian warfront. For in a world 
as yet unacquainted with the horrors of the mushroom cloud, poison gas 
was still regarded as the ultimate in hideous weapons.   Throughout 
the early years of World War /2,, reports persisted that the 
Axis powers had used gas- Germany in Russia, Japan in China again. 
They were always denied. Influential people in America were warning 
the Pentagon to be prepared against desperation gas attacks by 
the Germans in future campaigns. Some extremists went so far as to 
urge our using it first. To silence extremists, to warn the Axis, President 
Roosevelt issued this statement for the Allies in August:

"From time to time since the present war began there have 
been reports that one or more of the Axis powers were seriously contemplating 
use of poisonous gas or noxious gases or other inhumane devices 
of warfare. I have been loath to believe that any nation, even our 
present enemies, could or would be willing to loose upon mankind such 
terrible and inhumane weapons.   "However, evidence that the 
Axis powers are making significant preparations indicative of such an 
intention is being reported with increasing frequency from a variety 
of sources.   "Use of such weapons has been outlawed by the 
general opinion of civilized mankind. This country has not used them, 
and I hope that we never will be compelled to use them. I state categorically 
that we shall under no circumstances resort to the use of such 
weapons unless they are first used by our enemies".   The 
following month the invasion of Italy was begun, and Roosevelt gave 
effect to his warning by consenting to the stockpiling of poison gas in 
southern Italy. Bari was chosen as a depot, not only for its seeming 
safety, but because of its proximity to airfields. Any retaliatory 
gas attack would be airborne. It would be made in three waves- the 
first to lay down a smokescreen, the second to drop the gas bombs, the 
third to shower incendiaries which would burn everything below.

So the vile cargo went into the hole of the <John Harvey>. A 
detachment 
of six men from the 701st Chemical Maintenance Company under 
First Lt& Howard D& Beckstrom went aboard, followed by Lt& 
Thomas H& Richardson, the Cargo Security Officer. Secrecy 
was paramount. Only a few other people- very important people- knew 
of the nitrogen-mustard eggs nestled below decks. No one else must 
know. Thus, in the immemorial way- in the way of the right hand that 
knows and the left that does not- was the stage set for tragedy 
at Bari.   It was the night of December 2, 1943, and it was growing 
dark in Bari. It was getting on toward 7 o'clock and the German 
~Me-210 
plane had been and gone on its eighth straight visit. Capt& 
A& B& Jenks of the Office of Harbor Defense was very 
worried. He knew that German long-range bombers had been returning 
to the attack in Italy. On November 24th, they had made a raid on La 
Maddalena. Two days later, some 30 of them had struck at a convoy 
off Bougie, sinking a troopship- and it had been that very night that 
the ~Me-210 had made its first appearance. After it had reappeared 
the next two nights, Jenks went to higher headquarters and said:

"For three days now a German reconnaissance plane has been 
over the city taking pictures. They're just waiting for the proper 
time to come over here and dump this place into the Adriatic".

But the older and wiser heads had dismissed his warning as alarmist. 
Even though it was known that the Luftwaffe in the north was now 
being directed by the young and energetic General Peltz, the commander 
who would conduct the "Little Blitz" on London in 1944, a 
major raid on Bari at this juncture of the war was not to be considered 
seriously. True, there had been raids on Naples- but Naples was 
pretty far north on the opposite coast. No, Bari was out of range. 
More than that, Allied air had complete superiority in the Eighth 
Army's sector. So Captain Jenks returned to his harbor post to watch 
the scouting plane put in five more appearances, and to feel the 
certainty of this dread rising within him. For Jenks knew that Bari's 
defenses were made of paper. The Royal Air Force had but a single 
light anti-aircraft squadron and two balloon units available. There 
were no R&A&F& fighter squadrons on Bari airfield. The 
radar station with the best location was still not serviceable. Telephone 
communication was bad. And everywhere in evidence among the few 
remaining defensive units was that old handmaiden of disaster- multiple 
command.   It had been made shockingly evident that very morning 
to Ensign Kay K& Vesole, in charge of the armed guard aboard the 
<John Bascom>. A British officer had come aboard and told him 
that in case of enemy air attack he was not to open fire until bombs 
were actually dropped. Then he was to co-ordinate his fire with a 
radar-controlled 
shore gun firing white tracers.   "This harbor is 
a bomber's paradise", the Britisher had said with frank grimness. 
"It's up to you to protect yourselves. We can't expect any 
help from the fighters at Foggia, either. They're all being used on 
offensive missions".   Vesole had been stunned. Not fire until 
the bombs came down! He thought of the tons and tons of flammable 
fluid beneath his feet and shook his head. Like hell! Like hell 
he'd wait- and supposing the radar-controlled gun got knocked out? 
What would his guns guide on then- the North Star? Ensign 
Vesole decided that he would not tarry until he heard the whispering 
of the bombs, and when night began to fall, he put Seaman 2/~c Donald 
L& Norton and Seaman 1/~c William A& Rochford on the guns 
and told them to start shooting the moment they saw an enemy silhouette. 
Below decks, Seaman 1/~c Stanley Bishop had begun to write 
a letter home. ##

Above decks on the <John Harvey,> Lieutenant 
Richardson gazed at the lights still burning on the port wall and 
felt uneasy. There were lights glinting in the city, too, even though 
it was now dark enough for a few stars to become visible. Bari was 
asking for it, he thought.   For five days now, they had been 
in port and that filthy stuff was still in the hold. Richardson wondered 
when it would be unloaded. He hoped they would put it somewhere way, 
way down in the earth. The burden of his secret was pressing down 
on him, as it was on Lieutenant Beckstrom and his six enlisted men. 
Lieutenant Richardson could envy the officers and men of the <John 
Harvey> in their innocent assumption that the ship contained nothing 
more dangerous than high explosive bombs. They seemed happy at the 
delay in unloading, glad at the chance to go ashore in a lively liberty 
port such as Bari. Nine of them had gone down the gangplank already. 
Deck Cadet James L& Cahill and Seaman Walter Brooks had 
been the first to leave. Richardson had returned their departing grins 
with the noncommittal nod that is the security officer's stock in 
trade.   The other half of the crew, plus Beckstrom and his men, 
had remained aboard. Richardson glanced to sea and started slightly. 
Damned if that wasn't a sailing ship standing out of the old harbor- 
Porto Vecchio. The night was so clear that Richardson had no 
difficulty making out the silhouette. Then the thought of a cloudless 
sky made him shiver, and he glanced upward. His eyes boggled.

It was a clear night and it was raining!   Capt& Michael 
A& Musmanno, Military governor of the Sorrentine Peninsula, had 
also seen and felt the "rain". But he had mistaken it for bugs.

Captain Musmanno's renovated schooner with the flamboyant 
name <Unsinkable> had just left Porto Vecchio with a cargo of badly-needed 
olive oil for the Sorrentine's civilian population. Musmanno 
was on deck. At exactly 7:30, he felt a fluttering object brush 
his face. He snatched at it savagely. He turned the beam of his flashlight 
on it. He laughed. It was the silver foil from the chocolate 
bar he had been eating. He frowned. But how could-? Another, 
longer strip of tinsel whipped his mouth. It was two feet long. It was 
not candy wrapping.   It was "window"- the tinsel paper 
dropped by bombers to jam radar sets, to fill the scope with hundreds 
of blips that would seem to be approaching bombers.   "Fermate"! 
Musmanno bellowed to his Italian crewmen. "Stop! Stop 
the engines"!   <Unsinkable> slowed and stopped, hundreds 
of brilliant white flares swayed eerily down from the black, the air 
raid sirens ashore rose in a keening shriek, the anti-aircraft guns coughed 
and chattered- and above it all motors roared and the bombs came 
whispering and wailing and crashing down among the ships at anchor 
at Bari.   They had come from airports in the Balkans, these 
hundred-odd Junkers 88's. They had winged over the Adriatic, they 
had taken Bari by complete surprise and now they were battering her, 
attacking with deadly skill. They had ruined the radar warning system 
with their window, they had made themselves invisible above their flares. 
And they also had the lights of the city, the port wall lanterns, 
and a shore crane's spotlight to guide on. After the first two 
were blacked out, the third light was abandoned by a terrified Italian 
crew, who left their light to shine for nine minutes like an unerring 
homing beacon until British ~MP's shot it out.   In that 
interval, the German bombers made a hell of Bari harbor.   Merchant 
ships illuminated in the light of the flares, made to seem like 
stones imbedded in a lake of polished mud, were impossible to miss. 
The little <Unsinkable> sank almost immediately. Captain Musmanno 
roared at his men to lash three of the casks of olive oil together for 
a raft. They got it over the side and clambered aboard only a few 
minutes before their schooner went under.   <John Bascom> 
went down early, too. Ensign Vesole and his gunners had fought valiantly, 
but they had no targets. Most of the Junkers were above the 
blinding light of the flares, and the radar-controlled shore gun had 
been knocked out by one of the first sticks of bombs. Vesole rushed 
from gun to gun, attempting to direct fire. He was wounded, but fought 
on. Norton and Rochford fired wildly at the sounds of the motors. 
Bishop rushed on deck to grab a 20~mm gun, pumping out 400 rounds 
before sticks of three bombs each crashed into Holds One, Three and 
Five. Now the <Bascom> was mortally wounded. Luckily, she was 
not completely aflame and would go down before the gasoline could erupt.

The order to abandon ship was given, but cries of pain could 
be heard from the wounded below decks.

THERE IS a pause in the merriment as your friends gaze at 
you, wondering why you are staring, open-mouthed in amazement. You explain, 
"I have the strangest feeling of having lived through this 
very same event before. I can't tell when, but I'm positive I witnessed 
this same scene of this particular gathering at some time in 
the past"!   This experience will have happened to many of 
you.   Emerson, in his lecture, refers to the "**h startling experience 
which almost every person confesses in daylight, that particular 
passages of conversation and action have occurred to him in the same 
order before, whether dreaming or waking, a suspicion that they have 
been with precisely these persons in precisely this room, and heard 
precisely this dialogue, at some former hour, they know not when".

Most psychiatrists dismiss these instances of that weird feeling 
as the <deja vue (already seen)> illusion, just as they dismiss 
dream previsions as coincidences. In this manner they side-step the seemingly 
hopeless investigation of the greater depths of mystery in which 
all of us grope continually.   When a man recognizes a certain 
experience as the exact pattern of a previous dream, we have an instance 
of <deja vue>, 
except for the fact that he knows just why the experience 
seems familiar. Occasionally there are examples of prevision 
which cannot be pushed aside without confessing an unscientific attitude.

One day Maeterlinck, coming with a friend upon an event 
which he recognized as the exact pattern of a previous dream, detailed 
the ensuing occurrences in advance so accurately that his companion 
was completely mystified.   Rudyard Kipling's scorn for the "jargon" 
of psychical research was altered somewhat when he wondered 
"**h how, or why, had I been shown an unreleased roll of my life 
film"? The famous author tells us of the strange incident in <Something 
About Myself>.   One day when he attended a war memorial 
ceremony in Westminster Abbey his view was obstructed by a stout 
man on his left, his attention turned to the irregular pattern of the 
rough slab flooring and someone, clasping him by the arm, whispered, 
"I want a word with you, please". At that moment Kipling was 
overwhelmed with awed amazement, suddenly recalling that these identical 
details of scene, action and word had occurred to him in a dream six 
weeks earlier.   Freud probably contributed more than anyone else 
to the understanding of dreams, enabling us to recognize their equivalents 
in our wakeful thoughts. However, readers who accept Freud's 
findings and believe that he has solved completely the mystery of 
dreams, should ponder over the following words in his <Interpretation 
Of Dreams,> Chapter /1,: "**h as a matter of fact no such 
complete solution of the dream has ever been accomplished in any case, 
and what is more, every one attempting such solution has found that 
in most cases there have remained a great many components of the dream 
the source of which he has been unable to explain **h nor is the discussion 
closed on the subject of the mantic or prophetic power of dreams".

Dreams present many mysteries of telepathy, clairvoyance, 
prevision and retrovision. <The basic mystery of dreams, which embraces 
all the others and challenges us from even the most common typical 
dream, is in the fact that they are original, visual continuities>.

I recall the startling, vivid realism of a dream in which I 
lived through the horror of the bombing of a little Korean town. I am 
sure that nothing within me is capable of composing that life-like sequence, 
so complete in detail, from the hodge-podge of news pictures 
I have seen. And when psychology explains glibly, "but the subconscious 
mind is able to produce it" it refers to a mental region so vaguely 
identified that it may embrace the entire universal mind as conceivably 
as part of the individual mind.   Skeptics may deny the 
more startling phenomena of dreams as things they have never personally 
observed, but failure to wonder at their basic mystery is outright avoidance 
of routine evidence.   The question becomes, "What is 
a dream"?   Is a dream simply a mental or cerebral movie?

Every dream, and this is true of a mental image of any type 
even though it may be readily interpreted into its equivalent of wakeful 
thought, is a psychic phenomenon for which no explanation is available. 
In most cases we recognize certain words, persons, animals or objects. 
But these are dreamed in original action, in some particular continuity 
which we don't remember having seen in real life. For instance, 
the dreamer sees himself seated behind neighbor Smith and, with 
photographic realism, sees Smith driving the car; whereas, it is 
a matter of fact that Smith cannot drive a car. There is nothing to 
suggest that the brain can alter past impressions to fit into an original, 
realistic and unbroken continuity like we experience in dreams.

The entire concept of cerebral imagery as the physical basis of 
a mental image can find no logical support. <A "mental image" subconsciously 
impressing us from beneath its language symbols in wakeful 
thought, or consciously in light sleep, is actually not an image at 
all but is comprised of realities, viewed not in the concurrent sensory 
stream, but within the depths of the fourth dimension>.   Dreams 
that display events of the future with photographic detail call 
for a theory explaining their basic mystery and all its components, including 
that weird feeling of <deja vue>, inevitably fantastic though 
that theory must seem.   As in the theory of perception, established 
in psycho-physiology, the eye is recognized as an integral part 
of the brain. But then this theory confesses that it is completely at 
a loss as to how the image can possibly be received by the brain. The 
opening paragraph of the chapter titled <The Theory Of Representative 
Perception,> in the book <Philosophies Of Science> by 
Albert G& Ramsperger says, "**h passed on to the brain, and there, 
by some unexplained process, it causes the mind to have a perception".

But why is it necessary to reproduce the retinal image 
within the brain? As retinal images are conceded to be an integral 
function of the brain it seems logical to suppose that the nerves, between 
the inner brain and the eyes, carry the direct drive for cooperation 
from the various brain centers- rather than to theorize on the 
transmission 
of an image which is already in required location. Hereby, 
the external object viewed by the eyes remains the thing that is seen, 
not the retinal image, the purpose of which would be to achieve perceptive 
cooperation by stirring sympathetic impulses in the other sensory 
centers, motor tensions, associated word symbols, and consciousness.

Modern physics has developed the theory that all matter consists 
of minute waves of energy. We know that the number of radio and 
television impulses, sound waves, ultra-violet rays, etc&, that may 
occupy 
the very same space, each solitary upon its own frequency, is infinite. 
So we may conceive the coexistence of the infinite number of universal, 
apparently momentary states of matter, successive one after 
another in consciousness, but permanent each on its own basic phase of 
the progressive frequencies. This theory makes it possible for any 
event throughout eternity to be continuously available at any moment to 
consciousness.   Space in any form is completely measured by the 
three dimensions. If the fourth dimension is a physical concept and 
not purely metaphysical, through what medium does it extend? It is 
not through space nor time that the time machine most approved by science 
fiction must travel for a visit to the permanent prehistoric past, 
or the ever-existent past-fantasy future. Three seconds flat is the 
usual time, and the space is crossed by moderate mileage, while the 
overwhelming immensity of such journeys must be conceived as a static 
pulsation through an enormous number of coexistent frequencies which 
perpetuate all events.   The body, senses and brain, in common with 
all matter, have their counterpart on each of a countless number of 
frequencies. The senses in each counterpart bear the impression only 
of phenomena that share its own frequency, whereas those upon all other 
frequencies are invisible, inaudible and intactible to them. Consciousness 
is the factor that provides the progressive continuity to sensory 
impressions. When consciousness deserts the sleeping body and the 
wakeful world, it continues in the myriad progressions of the ever-present 
past and future, in a life as vibrant and real as the one left 
when the body tired and required sleep.   If the photographically 
realistic continuity of dreams, however bizarre their combinations, 
denies that it is purely a composition of the brain, it must be compounded 
from views of diverse realities, although some of them may never 
be encountered in what we are pleased to call the real life.   Dr& 
H& V& Hilprecht, Professor of Assyrian at the University 
of Pennsylvania, dreamed that a Babylonian priest, associated with 
the king Kurigalzu, (1300 B&C&) escorted him to the treasure 
chamber of the temple of Bel, gave him six novel points of information 
about a certain broken relic, and corrected an error in its identification. 
As a matter of fact, the incorrect classification, the result 
of many weeks of labor by Dr& Hilprecht, was about to be published 
by him the following day. Some time later the missing part of the relic 
was found and the complete inscription, together with other new evidence, 
fully corroborated the ancient priest's information. Dr& 
Hilprecht was uncertain as to the language used by the ancient priest 
in his dream. He was almost positive it was not Assyrian nor Cassite, 
and imagined it must have been German or English.   We may 
conclude that all six points of information, ostensibly given by the 
dream priest, <could have> been furnished by Dr& Hilprecht's 
<subconscious> reasoning. But, in denying any physical reality for 
this dream, how could the brain possibly compose that realistic, vividly 
visual continuity uninterrupted by misty fadeout, violent break or 
sudden substitution? Which theory is more fantastic: 1. that the 
perfect continuity was composed from the joblot of memory impressions 
in the professor's brain, or 2. that the dream was a reality on the 
infinite progressions of universal, gradient frequencies, across which 
the modern professor and the priest of ancient Nippur met?

The degree of circumstance, the ratio of memory to forgetfulness, determines 
whether a dream will be a recognized, fulfilled prevision, or 
the vaguely, effective source of the weird <deja vue> feeling. No 
doubt some experiences vanish so completely as to leave no trace on the 
sleeper's mind. Probably less than one percent of our previsions 
escape final obliteration before we wake. When we arrive at the events 
concerned in the vanished majority, they, of course, cannot impress 
us as anything familiar. Nevertheless, there are notably frequent 
instances of <deja vue,> in which our recognition of an entirely novel 
event is a feeling of having lived through it before, a feeling which, 
though vague, withstands the verbal barrage from the most impressive 
corps of psychologists. If <deja vue> is an illusion, then peculiarly, 
it is a most prevalent mental disturbance affecting even the most 
level-headed people.   Chauncey Depew, one-time runner-up for 
the Republican Presidential nomination, was attending a convention 
at Saratoga, where he was scheduled to nominate Colonel Theodore Roosevelt 
for Governor of New York when he noticed that the temporary 
chairman was a man he had never met. After the preliminary business 
affair was finished Depew arose and delivered the convincing speech 
that clinched the nomination for Roosevelt. If Depew had told any 
academic psychologist that he had a weird feeling of having lived through 
that identical convention session at some time in the past, he would 
have been informed that he was a victim of <deja vue>. But the famous 
orator felt more than vague recognition for the scene. He remembered 
exactly when he had lived through it before, and he had something 
to prove he had.   One week before the convention, Depew was 
seated on the porch of a country home on the Hudson, gazing at the opposite 
shore.

"THE FOOD IS WONDERFUL and it is a lot of fun to be here"!

So wrote a ten year old student in a letter to his parents 
from North Country School, Lake Placid, New York. In this 
one sentence, he unwittingly revealed the basic philosophy of the nutrition 
and psychological programs in operation at the school.   Because 
the food is selected with thought for its nutritional value, care 
for its origin, and prepared in a manner that retains the most nutrients, 
the food <does> taste good. When served in a psychological 
atmosphere that allows young bodies to assimilate the greatest good from 
what they eat because they are free from tension, a foundation is laid 
for a high level of health that releases the children from physical 
handicaps to participate with enjoyment in the work assignments, the 
athletic programs and the most important phase, the educational opportunities.

Situated in a region of some of the loveliest mountain 
scenery in the country, the school buildings are located amid open 
fields 
and farm lands. These contemporary structures, beautifully adapted to 
a school in the country, are home to 60 children, ages eight to fourteen, 
grades four through eight. From fourteen states and three foreign 
countries they come to spend the months from mid-September to June.

The Director, Walter E& Clark, believes that a school 
with children living full time in its care must take full responsibility 
for their welfare. To him this means caring for the whole child, 
providing basic nutrition, and a spiritual attitude that lends freedom 
for the development of the mind. 

#IMPROVED FARMING METHODS#

The 
concept of good nutrition really began with the garden. The school has 
always maintained a farm to supply the needs of the school. In a climate 
hostile to agriculture, Mr& Clark has had to keep alert to the 
most productive farm techniques.   Where a growing season may, 
with luck, allow 60 days without frost, and where the soil is poor, 
sandy, quick-drying and subject to erosion, many farmers fail. Throughout 
the Adirondack region abandoned farm homes and wild orchards bear 
ghostly testimony that their owners met defeat.   Mr& Clark 
found that orthodox procedures of deep plowing, use of chemical fertilizers 
and insecticides, plus the application of conservation principles 
of rotation and contouring, did not prevent sheet erosion in the potato 
fields and depreciation of the soil.   "To give up these 
notions required a revolution in thought", Mr& Clark said in reminiscing 
about the abrupt changes in ideas he experienced when he began 
reading "Organic Gardening" and "Modern Nutrition" in a 
search for help with his problems.   "Louis Bromfield's writings 
excited me as a conservationist". By 1952 he was convinced he 
would no longer spray. He locked his equipment in a cabinet where it 
still remains. After reading "Plowman's Folly" by Edward H& 
Faulkner, he stopped plowing.   The basis for compost materials 
already existed on the school farm with a stable of animals for the 
riding program, poultry for eggs, pigs to eat garbage, a beef herd 
and wastes of all kinds. Separate pails were kept in the kitchen for 
coffee grounds and egg shells.   All these materials and supplementary 
manure and other fertilizers from neighboring dairy and poultry 
farms made over 40 tons of finished compost a year. It was applied 
with a compost shredder made from a converted manure spreader. 
Years of patient application of compost and leaf mulching has changed 
the structure of the soil and its water-holding capacity. Soon after 
the method changed, visitors began asking how he managed to irrigate 
his soil to keep it looking moist, when in reality, it was the soil treatment 
alone that accomplished this.   To demonstrate the soil 
of his vegetable gardens as it is today, Mr& Clark stooped to scoop 
up a handful of rich dark earth. Sniffing its sweet smell and letting 
it fall to show its good crumbly consistency, he pointed to the nearby 
driveway and said, "This soil used to be like that hard packed 
road over there".   "People and soils respond slowly", says 
Walter Clark, "but the time has now come when the gardens produce 
delicious long-keeping vegetables due to this enrichment program. No 
chemical fertilizers and poisonous insecticides and fungicides are 
used".   The garden supplies enough carrots, turnips, rutabagas, 
potatoes, beets, cabbage and squash to store for winter meals in the 
root cellar. The carrots sometimes don't make it through the winter; 
the cabbage and squash keep until March or April. There is never 
enough corn, peas or strawberries.   Mr& Clark still has 
to use rotenone with potatoes grown on the least fertile fields, but he 
has watched the insect damage decrease steadily and hopes that continued 
use of compost and leaf mulch will allow him to do without it in 
the 
future. A new project planned is the use of Bio-Dynamic Starter.

New ideas for improving nutrition came with the study of soil 
treatment. "After the soil, the kitchen", says Mr& Clark. The 
first major change was that of providing wholewheat bread instead of 
white bread.   "Adults take a long time to convince and you are 
thwarted if you try to push". At first the kitchen help was tolerant, 
but ordered their own supply of white bread for themselves. "You 
can't make French toast with whole-wheat bread", was an early 
complaint. Of course they learned in time that they not only could use 
whole-wheat bread, but the children liked it better. 

#HOMEMADE BREAD# 

Mrs& Clark, as house manager, planned the menus and cared for 
the ordering. Then Miss Lillian Colman came from Vermont to be 
kitchen manager. Today whole grains are freshly ground every day and 
baked into bread. Mr& Clark's studies taught him that the only 
way to conserve the vitamins in the whole grain was prompt use of the 
flour. Once the grains are ground, vitamin ~E begins to deteriorate 
immediately and half of it is lost by oxidation and exposure to the 
air within one week.   A mill stands in a room off the kitchen. 
Surrounding it are metal cans of grains ordered from organic farms in 
the state. Miss Colman pours measures of whole wheat, oats, and soy 
beans and turns on the motor. She goes on about her work and listens 
for the completion of the grinding. The bread baked from this mixture 
is light in color and fragrant in aroma. It is well liked by the children 
and faculty.   There is one problem with the bread. "Lillian's 
bread is so good and everything tastes so much better here 
that it is hard not to eat too much", said the secretary ruefully eyeing 
her extra pounds. 

#HOT, FRESHLY-GROUND CEREAL#

The school has 
not used cold prepared cereals for years, though at one time that was 
all they ever served. When the chance came, they first eliminated 
cold cereal once a week, then gradually converted to hot fresh-ground 
cereal every day.   They serve cracked wheat, oats or cornmeal. 
Occasionally, the children find steamed, whole-wheat grains for cereal 
which they call "buckshot". At the beginning of the school year, 
the new students don't eat the cereal right away, but within a short 
time they are eating it voraciously.   When they leave for vacations 
they miss the hot cereal. The school has received letters from 
parents asking, "What happened to Johnny? He never used to like 
any hot cereal, now that's the only kind he wants. Where can we 
get this cereal he likes so much"? 

#BODY-BUILDING FOODS#

Salads 
are served at least once a day. Vegetables are served liberally. Most 
come from the root cellar or from the freezer. Home-made sauerkraut 
is served once a week. Sprouted grains and seeds are used in salads 
and dishes such as chop suey. Sometimes sprouted wheat is added to 
bread and causes the children to remark, "Lillian, did you put nuts 
in the bread today"?   Milk appears twice a day. The school 
raises enough poultry, pigs, and beef cattle for most of their needs. 
Lots of cheese made from June grass milk is served. Hens are kept 
on the range and roosters are kept with them for their fertility.

Organ meats such as beef and chicken liver, tongue and heart are 
planned once a week. Also, salt water fish is on the table once a week.

For deserts, puddings and pies are each served once a week. 
Most other desserts are fruit in some form, fresh fruits once daily 
at least, sometimes at snack time. Dried fruits are purchased from sources 
where they are neither sulphured nor sprayed. Apples come 
from 
a farm in Vermont where they are not sprayed. Oranges and grapefruit 
are shipped from Florida weekly from an organic farm.   Finding 
sources for these high quality foods is a problem. Sometimes the 
solution comes in unexpected ways. Following a talk by Mr& Clark 
at the New York State Natural Food Associates Convention, a man 
from the audience offered to ship his unsprayed apples to the school 
from Vermont.   Wheat-germ, brewer's yeast and ground kelp are 
used in bread and in dishes such as spaghetti sauce, meat loaves. Miss 
Colman hopes to find suitable shakers so that kelp can be available 
at the tables. Raw wheat-germ is available on the breakfast table 
for the children to help themselves.   Very few fried foods are 
used and the use of salt and pepper is discouraged. Drinking with meals 
is also discouraged; pitchers of water merely appear on the tables.

Nothing is peeled. The source is known so there is no necessity 
to remove insecticide residues. The cooking conserves a maximum 
of the vitamin ~C content of vegetables by methods which use very 
little water and cook in the shortest time possible. 

#WHOLESOME SNACKS, 
NO CANDY#

Since Mr& Clark believes firmly that the chewing 
of hard foods helps develop healthy gums and teeth, raw vegetables and 
raw whole-wheat grains are handed out with fresh fruit and whole-wheat 
cookies at snack time in the afternoons. To solve the problem of the 
wheat grains spilling on the floor and getting underfoot, a ball of 
maple syrup boiled to candy consistency was invented to hold the grains.

On their frequent hikes into the nearby mountains, the children 
carry whole grains to munch along the trail. They learn to like 
these so well that it isn't surprising to hear that one boy tried the 
oats he was feeding his horse at chore time. They tasted good to him, 
so he brought some to breakfast to eat in his cereal bowl with milk 
and honey.   Maple syrup is made by the children in the woods 
on the school grounds. This and raw sugar replace ordinary refined sugar 
on the tables and very little sugar is used in cooking. Candy is 
not allowed. Parents are asked in the bulletin to send packages of treats 
consisting of fruit and nuts, but no candy. 

#NOURISHING MEALS# 

Mr& Clark believes in a good full breakfast of fruit, hot cereal, 
milk, honey, whole-wheat toast with real butter and eggs. The heavy 
meal comes in the middle of the day. Soup is often the important dish 
at supper. Homemade of meat, bones and vegetables, it is rich in dissolved 
minerals and vitamins.   The school finds that the children 
are satisfied with smaller amounts of food since all of it is high 
in quality. The cost to feed one person is just under one dollar a 
day. 

#OUTDOOR EXERCISES#

Even before he saw the necessity of growing 
better food and planning good nutrition, Mr& Clark felt the school 
had a good health program. Rugged outdoor exercise for an hour and 
a half every day in all kinds of weather was the rule. A vigorous 
program existed in skiing, skating sports and overnight hiking. 

#HEALTHIER 
CHILDREN#

Since the change to better nutrition, he feels he 
can report on improvements in health, though he considers the following 
statements observations and not scientific proof.   Visitors to 
the school ask what shampoo they use on the children's hair to bring 
out the sheen. The ruddy complexion of the faces also brings comment.

BUFFETED by swirling winds, the little green biplane struggled 
northward between the mountains beyond Northfield Gulf. Wires 
whined as a cold November blast rocked the silver wings, but the engine 
roar was reassuring to the pilot bundled in the open cockpit. He 
peered ahead and grinned as the railroad tracks came into view again 
below.   "Good old iron compass"! he thought.   A plume 
of smoke rose from a Central Vermont locomotive which idled behind 
a string of gravel cars, and little figures that were workmen labored 
to set the ruptured roadbed to rights. The girders of a shattered 
Dog River bridge lay strewn for half a mile downstream. Vermont's 
main railroad line was prostrate. And in the dark days after the Great 
Flood of 1927- the worst natural disaster in the state's 
history- 
the little plane was its sole replacement in carrying the United 
States mails.   Rain of near cloudburst proportions had fallen 
for three full days and it was still raining on the morning of Friday, 
November 4, 1927, when officials of the Post Office Department's 
Railway Mail Service realized that their distribution system for 
Vermont had been almost totally destroyed overnight. Clerks and postmasters 
shoveled muck out of their offices- those who still had offices- 
and wondered how to move the mail. The state's railroad system 
counted miles of broken bridges and missing rights-of-way: it would 
obviously remain out of commission for weeks. And once medicine, 
food, clothing and shelter had been provided for the flood's victims, 
communications and the mail were the next top problems.   From 
Burlington, outgoing mail could be ferried across Lake Champlain 
to the railroad at Port Kent, N& Y&. But what came in was piling 
up. The nearest undisrupted end of track from Boston was at Concord, 
N& H&. When Governor Al Smith offered New York National 
Guard planes to fly the mail in and out of the state, it seemed 
a likely temporary solution, easing Burlington's bottleneck and that 
at Montpelier too.   The question was "Where to land"? 
There was no such thing as an airport in Vermont. Burlington aviator 
John J& Burns suggested the parade ground southwest of Fort 
Ethan Allen, and soon a dozen hastily-summoned National Guard pilots 
were bringing their wide-winged "Jenny" and DeHaviland two-seaters 
to rest on the frozen sod of the military base.   The only 
available field that could be used near flood-ravaged Montpelier was 
on the Towne farm off upper Main Street, a narrow hillside where 
takeoffs and landings could be safely made only under light wind conditions. 
Over in Barre the streets had been deep in swirling water, and 
bridges were crumpled and gone. Anticipating delivery of medicines 
and yeast by plane, Granite City citizens formed an airfield committee 
and with the aid of quarrymen and the 172nd Infantry, Vermont National 
Guard, laid out runways on Wilson flat, high on Millstone Hill. 
The "Barre Aviation Field" was set to receive its first 
aircraft the Sunday following the flood.   Though the makeshift 
airports were ready, the York State Guard flyers proved unable to 
keep any kind of mail schedule. They had courage but their meager training 
consisted of weekend hops in good weather, in and out of established 
airports, And the increasingly cold weather soon raised hob with 
the water cooled engines of their World War /1, planes. It seemed 
like a good time for officials to use a recently-passed law empowering 
the post office department to contract for the transport of first 
class mail by air. They had to act fast, for letters were clogging the 
terminals.   Down in Concord, New Hampshire, was a flier 
in the right place at the right time: Robert S& Fogg, a native 
New Englander, had been a World War /1, flying instructor, barnstormer, 
and one of the original planners of the Concord Airport. Tall, 
wiry, dark-haired Bob Fogg had already racked up one historical 
first in air mail history. Piloting a Curtiss Navy ~MF flying 
boat off Lake Winnipesaukee in 1925, he had inaugurated the original 
Rural Delivery air service in America.   During the excitement 
following Lindbergh's flight to Paris earlier in 1927, dare devil 
aviators overnight became legendary heroes. In Concord, Bob 
Fogg 
was the most prominent New Hampshire boy with wings. Public-spirited 
backers staked him to a brand-new airplane, aimed at putting their 
city and state on the flying map. The ship was a Waco biplane, one 
of the first two of its type to be fitted with the air cooled, 225~HP 
Wright radial engine known as the Whirlwind. A trim green and silver-painted 
craft only 22-1/2 feet long, the Waco was entered to 
compete in the "On-to-Spokane" Air Derby of 1927. As a matter 
of fact, Fogg and his plane didn't get beyond Pennsylvania in the 
race- an engine oil leak forced him down- but the flying service 
and school he started subsequently were first steps in paying off his 
wry-faced backers. So with all this experience, Bob Fogg was a natural 
choice to receive the first Emergency Air Mail Star Route contract. 
His work began just six days after the flood.   By airline 
from Concord to Burlington is a distance of about 150 miles, counting 
a slight deviation for the stop at either Barre or Montpelier. 
The first few days Bob Fogg set his plane down on Towne field back 
of the State House when the wind was right, and used Wilson flat 
above Barre when it wasn't. Between the unsafe Towne field and the 
long roundabout back road haul that was necessary to gain access to 
Wilson flat, arrangements at the state capital were far from satisfactory. 
Each time in, the unhappy pilot, pushing his luck, begged the postal 
officials that met him to find a safer landing place, preferably 
on the flat-topped hills across the Winooski River.   "But 
Fogg", they countered, "we can't get over there. And besides you 
seem to make it all right here". It took a tragedy to bring things 
to a head. After a week of precarious uphill landings and downwind 
takeoffs, Fogg one day looked down at the shattered yellow wreckage 
of an Army plane strewn across snow-covered Towne field. Sent to 
Montpelier by Secretary Herbert Hoover, Red Cross Aide Reuben 
Sleight had been killed, and his pilot, Lt& Franklin Wolfe, badly 
injured. With the field a blur of white the unfortunate pilot had simply 
flown into the hillside.   Faced with this situation, Postmaster 
Charles F& McKenna of Montpelier went with Fogg on a Burlington 
trip, and together they scouted the terrain on the heights 
of Berlin. A long flat known as the St& John field seemed to answer 
their purpose, and since the Winooski bridges were at last passable, 
they decided to use it.   With a wary eye on the farmer's 
bull, Fred Somers of Montpelier and Mr& St& John marked the 
field with a red table cloth. As a wind direction indicator, they tied 
a cotton rag to a sapling. With these aids, and a pair of skiis substituting 
for wheels on the Waco, Bob Fogg made the first landing on 
what is now part of the Barre-Montpelier Airport on November 21, 
1927.   Each trip saw the front cockpit filled higher with mail 
pouches. During the second week of operations, Fogg received a telegram 
from the Post Office Department, asking him to "put on two airplanes 
and make two flights daily, plus one Sunday trip". Since 
Fogg's was a one-man, one-plane flying service, this meant that he 
would have to do both trips, flying alone 600 miles a day, under sub-freezing 
temperature conditions.   Over the weeks, America's 
first Star Route Air Mail settled into a routine pattern despite the 
vagaries of weather and the lack of ground facilities and aids to navigation. 
Each morning at five Fogg crawled out of bed to bundle into 
flying togs over the furnace register of his home. Always troubled 
by poor circulation in his feet, he experimented with various combinations 
of socks and shoes before finally adopting old-style felt farmer's 
boots with his sheepskin flying boots pulled over them. A sheep-lined 
leather flying suit, plus helmet, goggles and mittens completed 
his attire for the rigors of the open cockpit. The airman's stock answer 
to "Weren't you cold"? became "Yes, the first half hour 
is tough, but by then I'm so numb I don't notice it"!

As daylight began to show through the frosty windows, Fogg would 
place a call to William A& Shaw at the U& S& Weather Station 
at Northfield, Vermont, for temperature and wind-velocity readings. 
Shaw could also give the flyer a pretty good idea of area visibility 
by a visual check of the mountains to be seen from his station. 
"Ceilings" were judged by comparison with known mountain heights 
and cloud positions. Later on in the day Fogg could get a better weather 
picture from the Burlington Weather Bureau supervised by Frank 
E& Hartwell.   Out at the airport each morning, Fogg's 
skilled mechanic Caleb Marston would have the Waco warmed up and running 
in the drafty hangar. (He'd get the engine oil flowing with an 
electric heater under a big canvas cover.) Wishing to show that aviation 
was dependable and here to stay, Bob Fogg always made a point 
of taking off each morning on the dot of seven, disregarding rain, snow 
and sleet in true postal tradition. Concord learned to set its clocks 
by the rackety bark of the Whirlwind's exhaust overhead. Sometimes 
the pilot had to turn back if fully blocked by fog, but 85% of his 
trips were completed.   Plane radios were not yet available, 
and once in the air, Fogg flew his ship by compass, a good memory for 
landmarks as seen from above, and a capacity for dead reckoning and quick 
computation. Often, threading through the overcast, he was forced 
to fly close to the ground by a low ceiling, skimming above the Winooski 
or the White River along the line of the broken railroad. When 
driving rain or mist socked in one valley, Fogg would chandelle up 
and over to reverse course and try another one, ranging from the Ottauquechee 
up to Danville in search of safe passage through the mountain 
passes.   The dependable Wright engine was never stopped on 
these trips. It ticked over smoothly, idling while Fogg exchanged 
mails with the armed messenger from Burlington at Fort Ethan Allen, 
and one from Montpelier and Barre at the St& John field.

Sometimes, on a return trip, the aviator would "go upstairs" high 
over the clouds. There he'd take a compass heading, figure his 
air speed, and deduce that in a certain number of minutes he'd be over 
the broad meadows of the Merrimack Valley where it would be safe 
to let down through the overcast and see the ground before it hit him. 
Bob Fogg didn't have today's advantages of Instrument Flight 
and Ground Control Approach systems. At the end of the calculated 
time he'd nose the Waco down through the cloud bank and hope to break 
through where some feature of the winter landscape would be recognizable.

Usually back in Concord by noon, there was just time 
to get partially thawed out, refuel, and grab a bit of Mrs& Fogg's 
hot broth before starting the second trip. Day after day Fogg shuttled 
back and forth on his one-man air mail route, until the farmers 
in their snowy barnyards and the road repairmen came to recognize the 
stubby plane as their link with the rest of the country.   The 
flyer had his share of near-misses. At Fort Ethan Allen the ever-present 
wind off Lake Champlain could readily flip a puny man-made thing 
like an airplane if the pilot miscalculated. Once the soldiers from 
the barracks had to hold the ship from blowing away while Fogg revved 
the engine and got the tail up. At a nod of his head they let go, 
turning to cup their ears against the icy slipstream. Tracks in the 
snow showed the plane was airborne in less than a hundred feet.

One afternoon during a cold, powdery snowstorm, Fogg took off for 
Concord from the St& John field. 
{A}re you retiring now? If so, are you saying, "Where did 
the last 
few years go? How did I get to be sixty-five so fast? What do 
I do now"?   Yes, retirement seems to creep upon you suddenly. 
Somehow we old-timers never figured we would ever retire. We always 
thought we would die with our boots on. Out of the blue comes talk 
of pension plans. Compulsory retirement at sixty-five looms on our 
horizon. Still, it seems in the far future. Suddenly, one day, up it 
pops! Sixty-five years and you've had it!   So, now what? 
Oh sure! You've thought about it before in a hazy sort of way. 
But! It never seemed real; never seemed as if it could happen 
to you; only to the other fellow.   Now! Here it is! How 
am I going to live? What am I going to do? Where do I go from 
here?   A great many retired people are the so-called white 
collar workers. Are you one of these?   If so, you are of the 
old school. You are conscientious, hard working, honest, accurate, 
a good penman, and a stickler for a job well done, with no loose ends. 
Everything must balance to the last penny. Also you can spell, without 
consulting a dictionary for every other word. You never are late 
for work and seldom absent. ##

{Actually, you can take no special 
credit for this.} It is the way you were taught and your way of 
life. All this is standard equipment for a man of your day; your stock 
in trade; your livelihood.   However, the last few years 
of your life, things seem to be changing. Your way doesn't seem to 
be so darned important any more. You realize you are getting in the old 
fogy class. To put it bluntly, you are getting out-moded.   What's 
happened? The answer is a new era.   Now, looming on 
the horizon are such things as estimated totals, calculated risks and 
I&B&M& machines. The Planning Dept& comes into existence. 
All sorts of plans come to life. This is followed by a boom in conferences. 
Yes sir! Conferences become very popular. When a plan 
burst its seams, hasty conferences supply the necessary patch, and life 
goes merrily on. That's called progress! The new way of life! 
Let's face it! You had your day and it was a good day. Let this 
generation have theirs. Time marches on!   Well, to get back 
to the problem of retirement. Every retiring person has a different 
situation facing him. Some have plenty of money- some have very little 
money. Some are blest with an abundance of good health- some 
are in poor health and many are invalids. Some have lovely homes- 
some live in small apartments. Some have beautiful gardens- some not 
even a blade of grass. Some have serenity of mind, the ability to accept 
what they have, and make the most of it (a wonderful gift to have, 
believe me)- some see only darkness, the bitter side of everything. 
Well, whatever you have, that's it! You've got to learn to 
live with it.   Now! The question is "How are you going to 
live with it"? ##

{You can sit back and moan and bewail your 
lot.} Yes! You can do this. But, if you do, your life will 
be just one thing- unhappiness- complete and unabridged.   It 
seems to me, the first thing you've got to do, to be happy, is to 
face up to your problems, no matter what they may be. Make up your mind 
to pool your resources and get the most out of your remaining years 
of life. One thing, I am sure of, you must get an interest in life. 
You've got to do something.   Many of you will say, "Well, 
what can I do"?   Believe me! There are many, many things 
to do. Find out what you like to do most and really give it a whirl. 
If you can't think of a thing to do, try something- anything. 
Maybe you will surprise yourself.   True! We are not all great 
artists. I, frankly, can't draw a straight line. Maybe you are 
not that gifted either, but how about puttering around with the old paints? 
You may amaze yourself and acquire a real knack for it. Anyway, 
I'll bet you have a lot of fun.   Do you like to sew? Does 
making your own clothes or even doll clothes, interest you? Do 
you love to run up a hem, sew on buttons, make neat buttonholes? If 
you do, go to it. There is always a market for this line of work. Some 
women can sit and sew, crochet, tat or knit by the hour, and look 
calm and relaxed and turn out beautiful work. Where sewing is concerned, 
I'm a total loss. When you see a needle in my hands you will 
know the family buttons have fallen off and I have to sew them back on, 
or get out the safety pins.   Then again, there's always that 
lovely old pastime of hooking or braiding rugs. Not for me, but perhaps 
just the thing for you.   {Well! How's about mosaic 
tile, ceramics or similar arts and crafts?} Some people love to 
crack tile and it's amazing what beautiful designs they come up with 
as a result of their cracking good time.   How about the art of 
cooking? Do you yearn to make cakes and pies, or special cookies 
and candies? There is always an open market for this sort of delicacy, 
in spite of low calorie diets, cottage cheese and hands-off-all-sweets 
to the contrary.   Some people can carve most anything out 
of a piece of wood. Some make beautiful chairs, cabinets, chests, doll 
houses, etc&. 
Perhaps you couldn't do that but have you ever tried 
to see what you could do with a hunk of wood? Outside of cutting your 
fingers, maybe you would come up with nothing at all, but then again, 
you might turn out some dandy little gadgets.   Some women get 
a real thrill out of housework. They love to dust, scrub, polish, 
wax floors, move the furniture around from place to place, take down the 
curtains, put up new ones and have themselves a real ball. Maybe that's 
your forte. It certainly isn't mine. I can look at furniture 
in one spot year in and year out and really feel for sure that's 
where it belongs. ##

{Perhaps you would like to become a writer.} 
This gives you a wide and varied choice. Will it be short stories, 
fiction, nonfiction, biography, poetry, children's stories, or even 
a book if you are really ambitious?   Ever since I was a 
child, I have always had a yen to try my hand at writing. If you do 
decide to write, you will soon become acquainted with rejection slips 
and dejection. Don't be discouraged! This is just being a normal 
writer. Just let the rejection slips fall where they may, and keep 
on plugging, and finally you will make the grade. Few new writers have 
their first story accepted, so they tell me. But, it could happen, 
and it may happen to you.   Then there's always hobbies, collecting 
stamps, coins, timetables, salt and pepper shakers, elephants, 
dogs, dolls, shells, or shall we just say collecting anything your heart 
desires?   I can hear some of you folks protesting. You say, 
"But it costs a lot of money to have a hobby. I haven't got that 
kind of money".   True! It does cost a lot of money for 
most hobbies but there are hobbies that are for free. How about a rock 
collection, or a collection of leaves from different trees or shrubs 
and in different colors? Then, take flowers. They are many and varied. 
Also, there's scrap books, collecting newspaper pictures and 
clippings, or any items of interest to you. It's getting interested 
in something that counts. ##

{As for me, I am holding in reserve 
two huge puzzles (I love puzzles)} to put together when time hangs 
heavy on my hands. So far, the covers have never been off the 
boxes. I just don't have time to do half the things I want to do now.

So in closing, fellow retired members, I advise you to make 
the most of each day, enjoy each one to the ~n'th degree. Travel, 
if you can. Keep occupied to the point you are not bored with life 
and you will truly find these final days and years of your lives to 
be sunshine sweet.   Good Luck! To one and all- Good Days 
ahead! 
{A}n important criterion of maturity is creativity. The mature 
person 
is creative. What does it mean to be creative, a term we hear with increasing 
frequency these days? When we turn to Noah Webster we find 
him helpful as usual. "To be creative is to have the ability to 
cause to exist- to produce where nothing was before- to bring forth 
an original production of human intelligence or power". We are creative, 
it seems, when we produce something which has not previously existed. 
Thus creativity may run all the way from making a cake, building 
a chicken coop, or producing a book, to founding a business, creating 
a League of Nations or, developing a mature character.   All 
living creatures from the lowest form of insect or animal life evidence 
the power of creativity, if it is only to reproduce a form like their 
own. While man shares this procreative function with all his predecessors 
in the evolutionary process, he is the only animal with a true 
non-instinctive and conscious creative ability. An animal, bird or 
insect creates either a burrow, or nest or hive in unending sameness 
according to specie. Man's great superiority over these evolutionary 
forbears is in the development of his imagination. This gives him the 
power to form in his mind new image combinations of old memories, ideas 
and experiences and to project them outside of himself into his environment 
in new and ever-changing forms. ##

{I}t has been 
truly said 
that anything man can imagine he can produce or create by projecting 
this inner image into its counterpart in the objective world. In our 
own time we have seen the most fantastic imagery of a Jules Verne 
come into actuality. The vision of a Lord Tennyson expressed in a 
poem 100 years ago took visible form over London in the air blitzes of 
1941. In fact all of our civilized world is the resultant of man's 
projection of his imagination over the past 60 centuries or more. It 
is in this one aspect, at least, that man seems to be made in the image 
of his Creator.   Not only can man project his imagination 
out into his environment in concrete forms, but even more importantly, 
he can turn it inward to help create new and better forms of himself. 
We recognize that young people through imaginative mind and body training 
can become athletes, acrobats, dancers, musicians and artists, developing 
many potentialities. We know that actors can learn to portray 
a wide variety of character roles. By this same combination of the 
will and the imagination, each one of us can learn to portray permanently 
the kind of character we would like to be. We must realize with 
Prof& Charles Morris in his THE OPEN SELF that "Man is the 
being that can continually remake himself, the artisan that is himself 
the material for his own creation". ##

{S}o far in 
history man 
has been too greatly over-occupied with projecting things into his environment 
rather than first creating the sort of person who can make 
the highest use of the things he has created. Is not the present world 
crisis a race between things we have created which can now destroy us 
and between populations of sufficient wisdom and character to forestall 
the tragedy. Is it not the obligation of us older citizens to lend 
our weight to being creative on the character side and to hasten our 
own maturing process?   Sir Julian Huxley in his book UNIQUENESS 
OF MAN makes the novel point that just as man is unique in 
being the only animal which requires a long period of infancy and childhood 
under family protection, so is he the only animal who has a long 
period after the decline of his procreativity.

SOME recent writings assume that the ignorant young couples 
are a thing of the remote, Victorian past; that nowadays all honeymooners 
are thoroughly familiar with the best sex-manuals and know enough 
from talk with friends and personal experimentation to take all 
the anxiety and hazards out of the situation.   Perhaps- but extensive 
discussions with contemporary practitioners, family doctors and 
gynecologists indicate that this is still an area of enormous ignorance. 
Joking and talking may be freer and easier, but the important factual 
information is still lacking for far too many newly-married men 
and women.   Various factors in the setting can still be of great 
advantage in making the first intercourse a good rather than a bad 
memory for one or both. Privacy must be highly assured both in time and 
place. That is, locking the room or stateroom door gives privacy of 
location, but it is equally important to be sure there is time enough 
for an utterly unhurried fulfillment.   If the wedding party lasted 
late, and the travel schedule means there are only a few hours before 
resuming the trip or making an early start, the husband may forestall 
tensions and uncertainties by confiding to his bride that lying 
in each other's arms will be bliss enough for these few hours. The 
consummation should come at the next stopping place when they have a long 
private time (day or night) for that purpose. ##

First intercourse 
for the bride brings with it the various problems connected 
with virginity and the hymen.   <One thing should be clear to 
both husband and wife- neither pain nor profuse bleeding has to occur 
when the hymen is ruptured during the first sex act. Ignorance on this 
point has caused a great deal of needless anxiety, misunderstanding 
and suspicion>.   The hymen is, in essence, a fragile membrane 
that more or less completely covers the entrance to the vagina in most 
female human beings who have not had sex relations. (Hymen, in fact, 
is the Greek word for membrane.)   Often it is thin and fragile 
and gives way readily to the male organ at the first attempt at intercourse. 
As might be expected, girls in this situation bleed very little 
and perhaps not at all in the process of losing their virginity.

It is also important to realize that many girls are born without 
a hymen or at most only a tiny trace of one; so that <the absence 
of the hymen is by no means positive proof that a girl has had sex 
relations>.   But there is a basis in fact for the exaggerations 
of the folk-lore beliefs. Some hymens are so strongly developed that 
they cannot be torn without considerable pain to the girl and marked 
loss of blood. More rarely, the hymen is so sturdy that it does not 
yield to penetration.   Extreme cases are on record in which the 
doctor 
has had to use instruments to cut through the hymen to permit marital 
relations to be consummated. These cases, for all their rarity, are 
so dramatic that friends and relations repeat the story until the general 
population may get an entirely false notion of how often the hymen 
is a serious problem to newly-weds. 
##

In recent times, when sexual 
matters began to be discussed more scientifically and more openly, 
the emotional aspects of virginity received considerable attention. 
Obviously, the bridal pair has many adjustments to make to their new 
situation. Is it necessary to add to the other tensions the hazard of 
making the loving husband the one who brought pain to his bride?

<Gynecologists and marriage manuals began to advise that the bride 
should consult a physician before marriage. If he foresaw any problem 
because of the quality of the hymen, it was recommended that simple 
procedures be undertaken at once to incise the hymen or, preferably, 
to dilate it>.   As a natural outgrowth of this approach it was 
often suggested that the doctor should complete the preparation for 
painless intercourse by dilating the vagina.   This recommendation 
was based on the fact that the hymen was not the only barrier to smooth 
consummation of the sex act. The vagina is an organ capable of 
remarkable contraction and dilation. This is obvious when it is remembered 
that, during childbirth, the vagina must dilate enough to permit 
the passage of the baby.   The intricate system of muscles that 
manage the contraction and dilatation of the vagina are partly under 
voluntary control. But an instinctive reflex may work against the conscious 
intention of the woman. That is, when first penetration takes 
place, the pressure and pain signals may <involuntarily> cause all the 
vaginal muscles to contract in an effort to bar the intrusion and prevent 
further pain. ##

The advantages 
of dilatation by the physician 
are both physical and psychological. Since it is a purely professional 
situation, none of the pain is associated with love-making or the 
beloved. By using instruments of gradually increasing size, the vagina 
is gently, and with minimum pain at each stage, taught to yield to 
an object of the appropriate shape.   In this process the vaginal 
muscles come under better conscious control by the girl. She learns 
how to relax them to <accept>- instead of contracting them to <repel> 
the entering object.   Apart from the standard problem of 
controlling the vaginal muscles, other serious barriers may exist that 
need special gynecological treatment. It is far better to have such 
conditions treated in advance than to have them show up on the honeymoon 
where they can create a really serious situation.   When no 
medical problems exist, the newly married couple generally prefer to 
cope with the adjustments of their new relationship by themselves. Special 
information and guidance about the possible difficulties are still 
of great value. Folk-lore, superstition and remembered passages from 
erotic literature can create physical and emotional problems if blindly 
taken as scientific facts and useful hints. ##

<The importance 
of loving tenderness is obvious. The long, unhurried approach and 
the deliberate prolongation of fore-play work on several levels. Under 
the excitement of caresses and sexual stimulation the vagina relaxes 
and dilates and the local moisture greatly increases, providing an excellent 
lubricant to help achieve an easier penetration>.   Extensive 
observations by physicians during vaginal examinations have established 
the fact that a single finger inserted along the anterior wall 
(the top line of the vagina as the woman lies on her back) may cause 
a great deal of distress in a virgin. <But> during the same examination, 
<two> fingers may be inserted along the posterior wall (the 
bottom of the vagina in the same position) without any pain; and in 
fact without any difficulty <if the pressure is kept downward at all 
times>.   These regional differences of sensitivity to pain may 
be of crucial significance during the earliest intercourse. The husband 
and wife should start with this anatomical information clearly in 
mind. They may then adjust their positions and movements to avoid too 
much pressure on the urethra and the anterior wall of the vagina; at 
least until repeated intercourse has dilated it and pain is no longer 
a possible threat against the full pleasure of love-making.   In 
fact, the technical procedure in medical examinations may be wisely 
adapted to his romantic purposes by the husband during the honeymoon.

Locker-room talk often stresses the idea that a man is doing 
the girl a favor if he is forceful and ruthless during the first penetration. 
The false reasoning is that a gradual advance prolongs the pain 
while a swift powerful act gets it over with and leaves the girl pleased 
with his virility and grateful for his decisiveness in settling 
the problem once and for all.   <Such talk is seriously in error. 
Ruthlessness at this time can be a very severe shock to the bride, 
both physically and psychologically. The insistent, forceful penetration 
may tear and inflame the vaginal walls as well as do excessive damage 
to the hymen>.   <The pain and distress associated with 
the performance may easily give the wife a deep-seated dread of marital 
relations and cause her, unconsciously, to make the sex act unpleasant 
and difficult for both by exercising her vaginal muscles to complicate 
his penetration instead of relaxing them to facilitate it>. ## 

Serious attention must also be given to the husband's problems in 
the honeymoon situation. The necessity for keeping alert to his bride's 
hazards can act as an interference with the man's spontaneous 
desire. The emotional stimulation may be so great that he may experience 
a premature climax. This is a very common experience and should in 
no way discourage or dishearten either husband or wife.   Or the 
frequent need to check and discipline himself to the wisest pace of 
the consummation can put him off stride and make it impossible for him 
to be continuously ready for penetration over a long period. The signals 
to proceed may therefore come when he is momentarily not able to 
take advantage of them.   The best course is to recover his physical 
excitement by a change of pace that makes him ardent again. This 
may require imagination and reminding himself that now he can be demanding 
and self-centered. He can take security from the fact that the 
progress he has made by his gentle approach will not be lost. 
Now while he uses talk, caresses or requires caresses from her, his bride 
will sympathetically understand the situation and eagerly help him 
restore his physical situation so they can have the consummation they 
both so eagerly desire.   A final word. The accumulated information 
on this point shows that first intercourse, even when it is achieved 
with minimum pain or difficulty, is seldom an overwhelming sexual 
experience to a woman. Too many new things are happening for it to 
be a complete erotic fulfillment.   Only under rare circumstances 
would a bride experience an orgasm during her first intercourse. Both 
man and wife should be aware of the fact that a lack of climax, and 
even the absence of the anticipated keen pleasure are not a sign that 
the wife may be cold or frigid.   If the early approaches are wise, 
understanding and patient, the satisfactions of marital fulfillment 
will probably be discovered before the marriage is much older.

WRITING in a large volume on the nude in painting and sculptures, 
titled <The Nude: A Study in Ideal Form,> Kenneth 
Clark declares: "**h The human body, as a nucleus, is rich in associations. 
**h It is ourselves and arouses memories of all the things 
we wish to do with ourselves".   Perhaps this is a clue to 
the amazing variety and power of reactions, attitudes, and emotions precipitated 
by the nude form.   The wide divergence of reactions 
is clearly illustrated in the Kinsey studies in human sexuality. 
Differences were related to social, economic, and educational backgrounds. 
Whereas persons of eighth grade education or less were more apt 
to avoid or be shocked by nudity, those educated beyond the eighth 
grade increasingly welcomed and approved nudity in sexual relations.

Such understanding helps to explain why one matron celebrating 
thirty-five years of married life could declare with some pride that 
her husband had "never seen her entirely naked", while another woman, 
boasting an equal number of years of married life, is proud of having 
"shared the nudist way of life- the really free, natural nude 
life- for most of that period".   Attempts at censorship always 
involve and reveal such complex and multiple individual reactions. 
The indignant crusader sees the nude or semi-nude 
human form as "lewd 
and pornographic, a threat and danger" to all the young, or good, 
or religious, or moral persons.   The equally ardent proponent 
of 
freedom from any kind of censorship may find the nude human form the 
"natural, honest, free expression of man's spirit and the epitome 
of beauty and inspiration".   One is always a little surprised 
to bump into such individual distinctions when it is unexpected. I 
still recall the mild shock I experienced in reading material of an enthusiastic 
advocate of the "clean, healthful, free way of natural life 
in nudism", who seemed to brave much misunderstanding and persecution 
in fine spirit.

@ IN TRADITION and in poetry, the marriage bed is a place 
of unity and harmony. The partners each bring to it unselfish love, 
and each takes away an equal share of pleasure and joy.   At its 
most ecstatic moments, husband and wife are elevated far above worldly 
cares. Everything else is closed away.   This is the ideal. 
But marriage experts say that such mutual contribution and mutual joy 
are seldom achieved. Instead one partner or the other dominates the 
sexual relationship. In the past, it has been the husband who has been 
dominant and the wife passive. But today there are signs that these 
roles are being reversed.   In a growing number of American homes, 
marriage counselors report, the wife is taking a commanding role 
in sexual relationships. It is she who decides the time, the place, 
the surroundings, and the frequency of the sexual act. It is she who 
says aye or nay to the intimate questions of sexual technique and mechanics- 
not the husband. The whole act is tailored to <her> pleasure, 
and not to <theirs>.   Beyond a certain point, of course, 
no woman can be dominant- nature has seen to that. But there is little 
doubt that in many marriages the wife is boss of the marital bed.

Of course, there remain many "old-fashioned" marriages in 
which the husband maintains his supremacy. Yet even in these marriages, 
psychologists say, wives are asserting themselves more strongly. The 
meekest, most submissive wife of today is a tiger by her mother's 
or grandmother's standards.   To many experts, this trend was 
inevitable. They consider it simply a sign of our times. Our society 
has "emancipated" the woman, giving her new independence and new 
authority. It is only natural that she assert herself in the sexual 
role.   "The sexual relationship does not exist in a vacuum", 
declares Dr& Mary Steichen Calderone, medical director of the 
Planned Parenthood Federation of America and author of the recent 
book, <Release From Sexual Tensions>. "It reflects what is going 
on in other areas of the marriage and in society itself. A world 
in which wives have taken a more active role is likely to produce sexual 
relationships in which wives are more self-assertive, too".

Yet many psychologists and marriage counselors agree that domination 
of the sex relationship by one partner or the other can be unhealthy 
and even dangerous. It can, in fact, wreck a marriage.   When 
a husband is sexually selfish and heedless of his wife's desires, she 
is cheated of the fulfillment and pleasure nature intended for her. 
And she begins to regard him as savage, bestial and unworthy. 
On the other hand, wifely supremacy demeans the husband, saps his self-respect, 
and robs him of his masculinity. He is a target of ridicule 
to his wife, and often- since private affairs rarely remain private- 
to the outside world as well.   "A marriage can survive almost 
any kind of stress except an open and direct challenge to the husband's 
maleness", declares Dr& Calderone. This opinion is supported 
by one of the nation's leading psychiatrists, Dr& Maurice 
E& Linden, director of the Mental Health Division of the Philadelphia 
Department of Public Health.   "When the roles of 
husband and wife are reversed, so that the wife becomes leader and the 
husband follower", Dr& Linden says, "the effects on their whole 
relationship, sexual and otherwise, can be disastrous". ## 

IN ONE EXTREME case, cited by a Pittsburgh psychologist, an office 
worker's wife refused to have sexual relations with her husband 
unless he bought her the luxuries she demanded. To win her favors, her 
husband first took an additional job, then desperately began to embezzle 
from his employer. Caught at last, he was sentenced to prison. While 
he was in custody his wife divorced him.   More typical is 
the case of a suburban Long Island housewife described by a marriage 
counselor. This woman repeatedly complained she was "too tired" 
for marital relations. To please her, her husband assumed some of the 
domestic chores. Finally, he was cooking, washing dishes, bathing the 
children, and even ironing- and still his wife refused to have relations 
as often as he desired them.   One wife, described by a 
New York psychologist, so dominated her husband that she actually placed 
their sexual relationship on a schedule, writing it down right between 
the weekly ~PTA meetings and the Thursday-night neighborhood 
card parties. Another put sex on a dollars-and-cents basis. After 
every money argument, she rebuffed her husband's overtures until the 
matter was settled in her favor.   Experts say the partners in 
marriages like these can almost be typed.   The wife is likely 
to be young, sophisticated, smart as a whip- often a girl who has sacrificed 
a promising career for marriage. She knows the power of the 
sex urge and how to use it to manipulate her husband.   The husband 
is usually a well-educated professional, preoccupied with his job- 
often an organization man whose motto for getting ahead is: "Don't 
rock the boat".   Sometimes this leads to his becoming 
demandingly dominant in marriage. Hemmed in on the job and unable to 
assert himself, he uses the sex act so he can be supreme in at least one 
area.   More often, though, he is so accustomed to submitting 
to authority on the job without argument that he lives by the same rule 
at home.   Some psychologists, in fact, suggest that career-bound 
husbands often are more to blame for topsy-turvy marriages than their 
wives. The wife's attempt at control, these psychologists contend, 
is sometimes merely a pathetic effort to compel her husband to pay 
as much attention to her as he does to his job.   Naturally no 
woman can ever completely monopolize the sexual initiative. Unless her 
husband also desires sex, the act cannot be consummated. Generally, 
however, in such marriages as those cited, the husband is at his wife's 
mercy.   "The pattern", says Dr& Morton 
Schillinger, 
psychologist at New York's Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy, 
"is for the husband to hover about anxiously and eagerly, virtually 
trembling in his hope that she will flash him the signal that tonight 
is the night".   No one seriously contends, of course, that 
the domineering wife is, sexually speaking, a new character in our world. 
After all, the henpecked husband with his shrewish wife is a comic 
figure of long standing, in literature and on the stage, as Dr& Schillinger 
points out. There is no evidence that these Milquetoasts 
became suddenly emboldened when they crossed the threshhold of the master 
bedroom. ##

FURTHERMORE, Dr& Calderone says, a certain 
number of docile, retiring men always have been around. They aren't 
"frigid" and they aren't homosexual; they're just restrained 
in all of life. They <like> to be dominated. One such man once 
confided to Dr& Theodor Reik, New York psychiatrist, that he 
preferred to have his wife the sexual aggressor. Asked why, he replied 
primly: "Because that's no activity for a gentleman".

But such cases were, in the past, unusual. Society here and abroad 
has been built around the dominating male- even the Bible appears 
to endorse the concept.   Family survival on our own Western frontier, 
for example, could quite literally depend on a man's strength 
and ability to bring home the bacon; and the dependent wife seldom 
questioned his judgment about anything, including the marriage bed.

This carried over into the more urbanized late 19th and early 
20th centuries, when the man ruled the roost in the best bull-roaring 
<Life With Father> manner.   In those days, a wife had mighty 
few rights in the domestic sphere and even fewer in the sexual sphere. 
"Grandma wasn't expected to like it", Dr& Marion Hilliard, 
the late Toronto gynecologist, once summed up the attitude of the 
'90s. Wives of the period shamefacedly thought of themselves as 
"used" by their husbands- and, history indicates, they often quite 
literally were.   When was the turning point? When did women 
begin to assert themselves sexually? ##

SOME DATE IT from 
woman suffrage, others from when women first began to challenge men 
in the marketplace, still others from the era of the emancipated flapper 
and bathtub gin. Virtually everyone agrees, however, that the trend 
toward female sexual aggressiveness was tremendously accelerated with 
the postwar rush to the suburbs.   Left alone while her husband 
was miles away in the city, the modern wife assumed more and more duties 
normally reserved for the male. Circumstances gave her almost undisputed 
sway over child-rearing, money-handling and home maintenance. 
She found she could cope with all kinds of problems for which she was 
once considered too helpless. She liked this taste of authority and 
independence, and, with darkness, was not likely to give it up.

"Very few wives", says Dr& Calderone, "who balance the checkbook, 
fix the car, choose where the family will live and deal with 
the tradesmen, are suddenly going to become submissive where sex is concerned. 
A woman who dominates other family affairs will dominate the 
sexual relationship as well".   And an additional factor was 
helping to make women more sexually self-assertive- the comparatively 
recent discovery of the true depths of female desire and response. 
Marriage manuals and women's magazine articles began to stress the 
importance of the female climax. They began to describe in detail the 
woman's capacity for response.   In fact, the noted psychologist 
and sex researcher, Dr& Albert Ellis, has declared flatly that 
women are "sexually superior" to men. According to Dr& Ellis, 
the average 20-year-old American woman is capable of far greater sexual 
arousal than her partner. Not surprisingly, Dr& Ellis says, 
some recently enlightened wives are out to claim these capabilities.

Yet, paradoxically, according to Dr& Maurice Linden, many 
wives despise their husbands for not standing up to them. An aggressive 
woman wants a man to demand, not knuckle under. "When the husband 
becomes passive in the face of his wife's aggressiveness", Dr& 
Linden says, "the wife, in turn, finds him inadequate. Often she 
fails to gain sexual satisfaction".   One such wife, Dr& 
Linden says, became disgusted with her weak husband and flurried through 
a series of extramarital affairs in the hope of finding a stronger 
man. But her personality was such that each affair lasted only until 
that lover, too, had been conquered and reduced to passivity. Then the 
wife bed-hopped to the next on the list.   In some cases, however, 
domination of the sex act by one partner can be temporary, triggered 
by a passing but urgent emotional need. Thus a man who is butting 
a stone wall at the office may become unusually aggressive in bed- 
the one place he can still be champion. If his on-the-job problems work 
out, he may return to his old pattern. Sometimes a burst of aggressiveness 
will sweep over a man- or his wife- because he or she feels 
age creeping up.   On the other hand, a husband who always has 
been vigorous and assertive may suddenly become passive- asking, 
psychologists say, for reassurance that his wife still finds him desirable. 
Or a wife may make sudden demands that she be courted, flattered 
or coaxed, simply because she needs her ego lifted.   In any case, 
Dr& Calderone remarks, such problems are a couple's own affair, 
and can't always be measured by a general yardstick. "As long 
as the couple is in agreement in their approach to sex, it makes little 
difference if one or the other dominates", Dr& Calderone declares. 
"The important point is that both be satisfied with the adjustment".

Other experts say, however, that if sexual domination 
by one or the other partner exists for longer than a brief period, 
it is likely to shake the marriage. And just as domination today often 
begins with the wife, so the cure generally must lie with the husband.

"To get a marriage back where it belongs", comments Dr& 
Schillinger of the Lincoln Institute, "the husband must take 
some very basic steps. He must begin, paradoxically, by becoming more 
selfish. He must become more expressive of his own desires, more demanding 
and less 'understanding'".   Too many husbands, Dr& 
Schillinger continues, worry about "how well they're doing", 
and fear that their success depends on some trick or technique of sexual 
play. 
##

SHE GAVE HERSELF a title **h Lady Diana Harrington.

The New York D&A& gave her another **h the Golden Girl 
of cafe society.   Houston police gave her a third, less flamboyant, 
title **h prostitute.   And Houston police have the final 
say in the matter since she died there on September 20, 1960, "Diane 
Harris Graham, 30, D&O&A& circumstances- unusual".

Early in her life she had discovered that where there were men, 
there was money, and with the two came luxury and liquor. She was still 
in the play for pay business when she died, a top trollop who had 
given the world's oldest profession one of its rare flashes of glamour.

She never hid the fact that she liked to play. Her neighbors 
in the expensive Houston apartment building told reporters that 
the ash-blonde beauty had talked at times about her past as 
"the Golden 
Girl of the Mickey Jelke trial".   It was the trial of 
oleomargarine heir Minot (Mickey) Jelke for compulsory prostitution 
in New York that put the spotlight on the international play-girl. 
(Jelke later served 21 months when he was found guilty of masterminding 
a ring of high-priced call girls.)   Diane was needed as a material 
witness in the case and New York police searched three continents 
before they found her in their own back yard- in a swank hotel, 
of course. She had been moving in cafe society as Lady Diana Harrington, 
a name that made some of the gossip columns.   It was when 
she was seized as a material witness that she got the designation 
she liked best.   Clad in mink and diamonds, she listened to Assistant 
District Attorney Anthony Liebler describe her to the arraigning 
judge:   "This girl is the Golden Girl of cafe society.

"In 1951 she was a prostitute in New York County. In 
the spring and early summer of that year she met a wealthy foreign 
tycoon who took her to France, where she later met a very wealthy man 
and toured all Europe with him.   "At Deauville she met an 
Egyptian by the name of Pulley Bey. He was the official procurer for 
King Farouk, now in exile. She was in Egypt during the revolution 
and had passport difficulty. She lied in order to get it.   "We 
have checked her in different parts of Europe and Egypt and finally 
back into this country **h She has been acting as a prostitute.

"Our information is that she gave the proceeds of her acts 
to Jelke".   Diane sobbingly denied this to the court. 
"That's a lie. I never gave that boy a cent. I am not a prostitute, 
and I had only one very wealthy boy friend", she said. 
During the course of the trial, Jelke backed up part of that statement.

"Diane is the type of girl", Jelke said, "who wouldn't 
get loving- even on her wedding night- unless you piled up 
all your money in the middle of the floor".   But she seemed to 
have underestimated the number of her "boy friends".   She 
came to New York from Detroit as a teenager, but with a "sponsor" 
instead of a chaperone. As she told it, "He's a rich boy friend, 
an old guy about 60". She was Mary Lou Brew then, wide-eyed, 
but not naive. She had talked her "boy friend" into sending her 
to New York to take a screen test.

The screen test was never made- but Diane was. She quickly 
moved into cafe society, possibly easing her conscience by talking 
constantly of her desire to be in show business.   She seemed 
so anxious to go on the stage that some of her friends in the cocktail 
circuit set up a practical joke.   An ex-fighter was introduced 
to her in a bar as "Mr& Warfield, the famous producer". The 
phony producer asked her if she would like to be in one of his shows.

"I'd love to audition for you", she gushed.   The 
audition was held a few minutes later in somebody's apartment. She 
thought she had great possibilities in the ballet and wanted to show 
the eminent producer how well she could dance.   After a few minutes 
he said, "I can't use you if you dance like that. I'd like 
to see you dance nude".   She hastily complied. Diane loved 
to dance in the nude, something she was to demonstrate time and again.

She developed another quaint habit. Even among the fast set 
in which she was moving, her method for keeping an escort from departing 
too early was unique.   When the date would try to bid her 
good-night at the door, she would tell him, "If you go home now, I'll 
scream". More often than not he would bow to the inevitable.

One who needed no such threats was a French financier. One of 
the blonde's yearnings that he satisfied was for travel. She wanted 
to go around the world, but she settled for a French holiday.

In an anonymous interview with a French newspaper the financier told 
of spending several months with her. "Then she went to Deauville 
where she met a member of a powerful Greek syndicate of gamblers".

The Greek evidently fell for her, "Monsieur ~X" recounted, 
and to clinch what he thought was an affair in the making he 
gave her 100,000 francs (about $300) and led her to the roulette tables.

She could do no wrong at the tables that time. And in short 
order the croupier had pushed several million francs her way. Smarter 
than most gamblers, she slipped away from the casino, packed her bag 
and took the night train to Paris. No one ever learned what happened 
to the Greek.   The luxury of Paris' most fashionable hotel, 
the George /5,, bored the beautifully-built blonde, so she high-tailed 
it to Rome.   She teamed up with another beauty, whose 
name has been lost to history, and commenced with some fiddling that 
would have made Nero envious.   To climax her Roman revels, she 
was thrown out of the swanky Hotel Excelsior after she had run naked 
through its marble halls screaming for help.   It was a rugged 
finish for what must have been a very interesting night.   Discreet 
Italian police described it in a manner typically continental.

"There had been a threesome at the party in the suite's bedroom: 
Miss Harrington (this was Diane's choice for a Roman name), 
another woman who has figured in other very interesting events and 
one of your well-known American actors.   "The actor had had 
much to drink and apparently became very violent. The hotel staff, 
as well as residents of the Excelsior, told us they saw that both ladies 
were bleeding from scratches as they were seen fleeing down the hall.

"They were wearing nothing but their scratches. They were 
asked to leave the hotel. No charges were filed".   The girls, 
after dressing, were indignant.   "You can't do this to 
us", Diane screamed. "We are Americans".   In the morning 
she found rooms directly across from the Excelsior at the equally 
luxurious Hotel Ambassador.   With the Ambassador as headquarters, 
she continued to promote good will abroad. Of course, her benevolence 
was limited to those who could afford it, but then there is a 
limit to what one person can do.   By this time Diane was a beguiling 
lass of 19 and still seeking her place in the world. She thought 
royal status might come her way when, while she was still in Rome, 
she met Pulley Bey, a personal procurer to King Farouk of Egypt.

A close friend of hers in the Roman days described it this 
way:   "It was a strange relationship. Pulley Bey spoke no 
English. Diane spoke no Italian or French. She had a hard time 
making him understand that it was Farouk she wished to meet.   "Pulley 
Bey insisted that she bestow her favors on him", the friend 
continued. It seemed as though she were always auditioning. 
No believer in the traditional devotion of royal servitors, the plump 
Pulley broke the language barrier and lured her to Cairo where she 
waited for nine months, vainly hoping to see Farouk.   Pulley 
had set her up at the Semiramis Hotel, but she grew impatient waiting 
for a royal reception and moved to a luxurious apartment to which the 
royal pimp had no key.   She picked her own Middle-Eastern friends 
from the flock of ardent Egyptians that buzzed around her. Tewfik 
Badrawi, Mohammed Gaafer and numerous other wealthy members of 
Cairo society enjoyed her company.   "So extensive became her 
circle of admirers", Egyptian police said, "that her escapades 
caused distrust".   The roof was about ready to fall in on Diane's 
little world, but it took nothing less than the Egyptian revolution 
to bring it down. When Farouk was overthrown, police picked up 
his personal pimp, Pulley Bey. They also called upon Diane with 
a request for a look at her passport.   The cagey Pulley Bey, 
who spoke no English, had taken the passport so that Diane 
couldn't 
leave the country without his approval. Officials provided a temporary 
passport, good only for return to the United States.   And 
return to the United States she did, into waiting arms- the unromantic 
ones of the New York District Attorney's office.   Held 
as a material witness in the compulsory prostitution trial of Mickey 
Jelke, the comely courtesan was unable to raise bail and was committed 
to the Women's House of Detention, a terribly overcrowded prison.

It is a tribute to her talents that she was able to talk 
the District Attorney into having her removed from the prison to a 
hotel room, with her meals taken at Vesuvio's, an excellent Italian 
restaurant.   Newspapers at the time noted that the move indicated 
that she was co-operating with the District Attorney.   With 
the end of the trial Diane disappeared from New York **h it was 
no longer fashionable to be seen with fabulous "Lady Harrington".

Several years ago she married a Houston business man, Robert 
Graham. She later divorced Graham, who is believed to have moved 
to Bolivia.   Houston police got to know Diane two years ago 
when the vice squad picked her up for questioning about a call girl ring. 
Last May, they said, she admitted being a prostitute.   The 
next time the police saw her she was dead.   It was September 
20, 1960, in a lavishly decorated apartment littered with liquor bottles. 
She had had a party with a regular visitor, Dr& William W& 
McClellan.   McClellan, who had once lost his medical license 
temporarily on a charge of drug addiction, was with her when she died. 
He had been in the apartment two days and was hazy about what had 
happened during that time. When he realized she was dead, he called 
two lawyers and then the police.   When the police arrived, they 
found McClellan and the two lawyers sitting and staring silently.

The blonde's nude body was in bed, a green sheet and a pink 
blanket covered her. Pictures of her in more glamorous days were on the 
walls.   An autopsy disclosed a large amount of morphine in Diane's 
body. Police theorize that a combination of dope, drink and 
drugs killed her.   "I think that maybe she wanted it this way", 
a vice squad cop said. "A maid told us that she still bragged 
about getting $50 a date. She was on the junk, and they slide fast when 
that happens. At least she never knew what the bottom was 
like". 
I AM a carpet salesman.   I work for one of the biggest chains 
of retail carpet houses in the East. We cater mostly to nice people 
in the $5-8,000 annual income bracket and we run a string of snazzy, 
neon-lit, chromium-plated suburban stores.   I am selling the 
stuff of which is made one of the Great American Dreams- <wall-to-wall 
carpeting>.   There is only one trouble with this big, 
beautiful dream. From where I sit it looks more like a nightmare.

People come to me with confidence. They depend on my supposedly 
expert knowledge of a trade of which they themselves know little.

But I knowingly abuse their confidence. 
FRANKLIN D& Lee proved a man of prompt action when Mrs& 
Claire Shaefer, accompanied by a friend, visited him in Bakersfield, 
California, several months ago as a prospective patient. "Doctor" 
Lee asked her to lie down on a bed and remove her shoes. Then, 
by squeezing her foot three times, he came up- presto- with a 
different diagnosis with each squeeze. She had- he informed her- 
kidney trouble, liver trouble, and a severe female disorder. (He explained 
that he could diagnose these ailments from squeezing her foot because 
all of the nervous system was connected to it.) He knew just the 
thing for her- a treatment from his "cosmic light ozone generator" 
machine.   As he applied the applicator extending from the 
machine- which consisted of seven differently colored neon tubes superimposed 
on a rectangular base- to the supposedly diseased portions 
of Mrs& Shaefer's body, Lee kept up a steady stream of pseudo-scientific 
mumbo-jumbo. Yes, the ozone from his machine would cure practically 
everything, he assured her. Did she know, he asked, why the 
colors of the tubes were important to people's health? The human 
body- he pointed out, for example- required 33 units of blue light. 
For that reason, he informed her, the Lord made the sky blue. Continuing 
glibly in this vein, he paused to comfort her:   "Don't 
you worry. This machine will cure your cancer-ridden body".

"Cancer"! Mrs& Shaefer practically shrieked. "You 
didn't tell me I had cancer".   "You have it, all right. 
But as long as you can have treatment from my machine you have nothing 
to worry about. Why, I once used this machine to cure a woman with 
97 pounds of cancer in her body".   He urged her to buy one 
of his machines- for $300. When she said that she didn't have the 
money, he said that she could come in for treatment with his office 
model until she was ready to buy one. He then sold her minerals to cure 
her kidney ailment, a can of sage "to make her look like a girl again", 
and an application of plain mud to take her wrinkles away.

Lee renewed his pressure on Mrs& Shaefer to buy his machine 
when she visited him the next day. After another treatment with the machine, 
he told her that "her entire body was shot through with tumors 
and cysts". He then sold her some capsules that he asserted would 
take care of the tumors and cysts until she could collect the money 
for buying his machine.   When she submitted to his treatment with 
the capsules, Mrs& Shaefer felt intense pain. Leaving Lee's 
office, Mrs& Shaefer hurried over to her family physician, who treated 
her for burned tissue. For several days, she was ill as a result 
of Lee's treatment.   Mrs& Shaefer never got around to 
joining the thousand or so people who paid Lee some $30,000 for his ozone 
machines. For Mrs& Shaefer- who had been given a clean bill 
of health by her own physician at the time she visited Lee- and her 
friend were agents for the California Pure Food and Drug Inspection 
Bureau. And she felt amply rewarded for her suffering when the 
evidence of Lee's quack shenanigans, gathered by the tape recorder 
under her friend's clothing, proved adequate in court for convicting 
Franklin D& Lee. The charge: violation of the California Medical 
Practices Act by practicing medicine without a license and selling 
misbranded drugs. The sentence: 360 days' confinement in the 
county jail.   An isolated case of quackery? By no means. Rather, 
it is typical of the thousands of quacks who use phony therapeutic 
devices to fatten themselves on the miseries of hundreds of thousands 
of Americans by robbing them of millions of dollars and luring them 
away from legitimate, ethical medical treatment of serious diseases. 
The machine quack makes his Rube Goldberg devices out of odds and 
ends of metals, wires, and radio parts.   With these gadgets- 
impressive to the gullible because of their flashing light bulbs, ticks, 
and buzzes- he then carries out a vicious medical con game, capitalizing 
on people's respect for the electrical and atomic wonders of 
our scientific age. He milks the latest scientific advances, translating 
them into his own special Buck Rogers vocabulary to huckster his 
fake machines as a cure-all for everything from hay fever to sexual 
impotence and cancer.   The gadget faker operates or sells his 
phony machines for $5 to $10,000- 
anything the traffic will bear. He 
may call himself a naprapath, a physiotherapist, an electrotherapist, 
a naturopath, a sanipractor, a medical cultist, a masseur, a "doctor"- 
or what have you. Not only do these quacks assume impressive 
titles, but represent themselves as being associated with various scientific 
or impressive foundations- 
foundations which often have little 
more than a letterhead existence.   The medical device pirate 
of today, of course, is a far more sophisticated operator than his predecessor 
of yesteryear- the gallus-snapping hawker of snake oil and 
other patent medicines. His plunder is therefore far higher- running 
into hundreds of millions.   According to the Food and Drug 
Administration (~FDA), "Doctor" Ghadiali, Dr& Albert 
Abrams and his clique, and Dr& Wilhelm Reich- to name three notorious 
device quacks- succeeded, respectively, in distributing 10,000, 
5000, and 2000 fake health machines.   Authorities believe 
that many of the Doctor Frauds using these false health gadgets are 
still in business. Look at the sums paid by two device quack victims 
in Cleveland. Sarah Gross, a dress shop proprietor, paid $1020 to 
a masseur, and Mr& A&, a laborer, paid $4200 to a chiropractor for 
treatment with two fake health machines- the "radioclast" and 
the "diagnometer". Multiply these figures by the millions of people 
known to be conned by medical pirates annually. You will come up 
with a frightening total.   That's why the ~FDA, the American 
Medical Association (~AMA), and the National Better Business 
Bureau (~BBB) have estimated the toll of mechanical quackery 
to be a substantial portion of the $610 million or so paid to medical 
charlatans annually.   The Postmaster General recently reported 
that mail order frauds- among which fake therapeutic devices 
figure prominently- are at the highest level in history. Similarly, 
the American Cancer Society (~ACS), the Arthritis and Rheumatism 
Foundation, and the ~BBB have each stated lately that medical 
quackery is at a new high. For example, the ~BBB has reported 
it was receiving four times as many inquiries about quack devices and 
10 times as many complaints compared with two years ago.   Authorities 
hesitate to quote exact figures, however, believing that any 
sum they come up with is only a surface manifestation- turned up by 
their inevitably limited policing- of the real loot of the medical 
racketeer. In this sense, authorities believe that all estimates of phony 
device quackery are conservative.   The economic toll that 
the device quack extracts is important, of course. But it is our health- 
more precious than all the money in the world- that these modern 
witch doctors with their fake therapeutic gadgets are gambling away. 
By preying on the sick, by playing callously on the hopes of the desperate, 
by causing the sufferer to delay proper medical care, these medical 
ghouls create pain and misery by their very activity.   Typically, 
Sarah Gross and Mr& ~A both lost more than their money 
as the result of their experiences with their Cleveland quacks. Sarah 
Gross found that the treatments given her for a nervous ailment 
by the masseur were not helping her. As a result, she consulted medical 
authorities and learned that the devices her quack "doctor" was 
using were phony. She suffered a nervous breakdown and had to be 
institutionalized.

Mr& A&, her fellow townsman, also experienced 
a nervous breakdown just as soon as he discovered that he had been 
bilked of his life savings by the limited practitioner who had been 
treating his wife- a woman suffering from an incurable disease, multiple 
sclerosis- and himself. Mr& ~A has recovered, but he is, 
justifiably, a bitter man. "That's a lot of hard-earned money to 
lose", he says today. "Neither me nor my wife were helped by that 
chiropractor's treatments".   And there was the case of Tom 
Hepker, a machinist, who was referred by a friend to a health machine 
quack who treated him with a so-called diagnostic machine for what 
Doctor Fraud said was a system full of arsenic and strychnine. After 
his pains got worse, Tom decided to see a real doctor, from whom he 
learned he was suffering from cancer of the lung. Yes, Tom caught 
it in time to stay alive. But he's a welfare case now- a human wreck- 
thanks to this modern witch doctor.   But the machine quack 
can cause far more than just suffering. In such diseases as cancer, 
tuberculosis, and heart disease, early diagnosis and treatment are so 
vital that the waste of time by the patient with Doctor Fraud's 
cure-all gadget can prove fatal. Moreover, the diabetic patient who relies 
on cure by the quack device and therefore cuts off his insulin intake 
can be committing suicide. For instance:   In Chicago, 
some time ago, Mr& H&, age 27, a diabetic since he was six, stopped 
using 
insulin because he had bought a "magic spike"- a glass tube 
about the size of a pencil filled with barium chloride worth a small 
fraction of a cent- sold by the Vrilium Company of Chicago for $306 
as a cure-all. "Hang this around your neck or attach it to other 
parts of your anatomy, and its rays will cure any disease you have", 
said the company. Mr& H& is dead today because he followed this 
advice.   Doris Hull, suffering from tuberculosis, was taken 
by her husband to see Otis G& Carroll, a sanipractor- a licensed 
drugless healer- in Spokane. Carroll diagnosed Mrs& Hull by 
taking a drop of blood from her ear and putting it on his "radionic" 
machine and twirling some knobs (fee $50).   His prescription: 
hot and cold compresses to increase her absorption of water. Although 
she weighed only 108 pounds when she visited him, Carroll permitted 
her to go on a 10-day fast in which she took nothing but water. 
Inevitably, Mrs& Hull died of starvation and tuberculosis, weighing 
60 pounds. Moreover, her husband and child contracted T&B& 
from her. (Small wonder a Spokane jury awarded the husband $35,823 
for his wife's death.)   In California, a few years ago, a ghoul 
by the name of H& F& Bell sold electric blankets as a cure 
for cancer. He did this by the charming practice of buying up used electric 
blankets for $5 to $10 from survivors of patients who had died, 
reconditioning them, and selling them at $185 each. When authorities 
convicted him of practicing medicine without a license (he got off with 
a suspended sentence of three years because of his advanced age of 
77), one of his victims was not around to testify: He was dead of 
cancer.   By no means are these isolated cases. "Unfortunately", 
says Chief Postal Inspector David H& Stephens, who has prosecuted 
many device quacks, "the ghouls who trade on the hopes of 
the desperately ill often cannot be successfully prosecuted because the 
patients who are the chief witnesses die before the case is called up 
in court". ##

DEATH! Have no doubt about it. That's 
where device quackery can lead. The evidence shows that fake therapeutic 
machines, substituted for valid medical cures, have hastened the 
deaths of thousands.   Who are the victims of the device quacks? 
Authorities say that oldsters are a prime target. Says Wallace 
F& Jannsen, director of the ~FDA's Division of Public Information: 
"Quacks are apt to direct their appeal directly to older 
people, or to sufferers from chronic ailments such as arthritis, rheumatism, 
diabetes, and cancer. People who have not been able to get 
relief from regular medical doctors are especially apt to be taken in 
by quacks". The victims of the quacks are frequently poor people, like 
Mr& A&, who scrape up their life savings to offer as a sacrifice 
to Doctor Fraud's avarice. They are often ignorant as well as 
underprivileged.

TEN-YEAR-OLD Richard Stewart had been irritable and quarrelsome 
for almost a year. His grades had gone steadily downhill, and 
he had stopped bringing 
friends and classmates home from school.

Mr& and Mrs& Stewart were puzzled and concerned. Then one day 
Dick's classmate Jimmy, from next door, let the cat out of the 
bag. The youngsters in the boys' class had nicknamed Dick "Bugs 
Bunny" because his teeth protruded.   When Richard's parents 
told him they wanted to take him to an orthodontist- a dentist who 
specializes in realigning teeth and jaws- their young son was interested. 
During the year that followed, Dick co-operated whole-heartedly 
with the dentist and was delighted with the final result achieved- 
an upper row of strong straight teeth that completely changed his 
facial appearance.   Richard Stewart is no special case. "The 
majority of children in the United States could benefit by some form 
of orthodontic treatment", says Dr& Allan G& Brodie, professor 
and head of the department of orthodontics at the University of 
Illinois and a nationally recognized authority in his field. 
What do parents need to know about those "years of the braces" in 
order not to waste a child's time and their money? How can they 
tell whether a child needs orthodontic treatment? Why and when should 
tooth-straightening be undertaken? What is it likely to cost? 

#TOOTH FIT EXPLAINED#

OCCLUSION is the dentist's expression 
for the way teeth fit together when the jaws are closed. Malocclusion, 
or a bad fit, is what parents need to look out for. One main type 
of malocclusion is characterized by a receding chin and protruding upper 
front teeth. A chin too prominent in relation to the rest of the 
face, a thrusting forward of the lower front teeth, an overdeveloped lower 
jawbone, and an underdeveloped upper jaw indicate the opposite type 
of malocclusion.   These two basic malformations have, of course, 
many variations. A child probably requires some form of treatment 
if he has any of the following conditions: _@_ A noticeable 
protrusion of the upper or lower jaw. _@_ Crooked, overlapping, 
twisted, or widely spaced teeth. _@_ Front teeth not meeting 
when the back teeth close. _@_ Upper teeth completely covering 
the lowers when the back teeth close. _@_ The eyeteeth (third from 
the middle on top, counting each front tooth as the first) beginning 
to protrude like fangs. _@_ Second teeth that have come in before 
the first ones have fallen out, making a double row.   Contrary 
to the thinking of 30 to 40 years ago, when all malocclusion was 
blamed on some unfortunate habit, recent studies show that most tooth 
irregularity has at least its beginning in hereditary predisposition. 
However, this does not mean that a child's teeth or jaws must 
necessarily resemble those of someone in his family.   Tooth deformity 
may be the result of <excessive> thumb- or finger-sucking, tongue-thrusting, 
or lip-sucking- but it's important to remember that 
there's a difference between <normal> and <excessive> sucking 
habits. It's perfectly normal for babies to suck their thumbs, and 
no mother need worry if a child continues this habit until he is two 
or three years old. Occasional sucking up to the fifth year may not affect 
a youngster's teeth; but after that, if thumb-sucking pressure 
is frequent, it will have an effect.   Malocclusion can also 
result if baby teeth are lost too soon or retained too long. If a child 
loses a molar at the age of two, the adjoining teeth may shift toward 
the empty space, thus narrowing the place intended for the permanent 
ones and producing a jumble. If baby teeth are retained too long, the 
incoming second teeth may be prevented from emerging at the normal 
time or may have to erupt in the wrong place. 

#CORRECTION CAN SAVE TEETH# 

EVERY orthodontist sees children who are embarrassed by 
their malformed teeth. Some such youngsters rarely smile, or they try 
to speak with the mouth closed. In certain cases, as in Dick Stewart's, 
a child's personality is affected. Yet from the dentist's 
point of view, bad-fitting teeth should be corrected for physical reasons.

Bad alignment may result in early loss of teeth through 
a breakdown of the bony structure that supports their roots. This serious 
condition, popularly known as pyorrhea, is one of the chief causes 
of tooth loss in adults.   Then, too, misplaced or jammed-together 
teeth are prone to trapping food particles, increasing the 
likelihood of rapid decay. "For these and other reasons", says Dr& 
Brodie, "orthodontics can prolong the life of teeth".

The failure of teeth to fit together when closed interferes with normal 
chewing, so that a child may swallow food whole and put a burden 
on his digestive system. Because of these chewing troubles, a child may 
avoid certain foods he needs for adequate nutrition. Badly placed 
teeth can also cause such a speech handicap as lisping. 

#THE WHEN AND 
HOW OF STRAIGHTENING#

"MOST orthodontic work is done on children 
between the ages of 10 and 14, though there have been patients 
as young as two and as old as 55", says Dr& Brodie.   In 
the period from 10 to 14 the permanent set of teeth is usually completed, 
yet the continuing growth of bony tissue makes moving badly placed 
teeth comparatively easy. Orthodontic work is possible because teeth 
are held firmly but not rigidly, by a system of peridontal membrane with 
an involved nerve network, to the bone in the jaw; they are not 
anchored directly to the bone. Abnormal pressure, applied over a period 
of time, produces a change in the bony deposit, so a tooth functions 
normally in the new position into which it has been guided.   What 
can 10-year-old Susan expect when she enters the orthodontist's 
office? On her first visit the orthodontist will take ~X rays, 
photographs, tooth measurements, and "tooth prints"- an impression 
of the mouth that permits him to study her teeth and jaws. 
If he decides to proceed, he will custom-make for Susie an appliance 
consisting of bands, plastic plates, fine wires, and tiny springs. This 
appliance will exert a gentle and continuous or intermittent pressure 
on the bone. As the tooth moves, bone cells on the pressure side 
of it will dissolve, and new ones will form on the side from which the 
tooth has moved. This must be done at the rate at which new bony tissue 
grows, and no faster.   "If teeth are moved too rapidly, serious 
injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding 
bone holding them in place", explains Dr& Brodie. "Moving one 
or two teeth can affect the whole system, and an ill-conceived plan 
of treatment can disrupt the growth pattern of a child's face".

During the first few days of wearing the appliance and immediately 
following each adjustment, Susan may have a slight discomfort or soreness, 
but after a short time this will disappear. Parents are often 
concerned that orthodontic appliances may cause teeth to decay. When 
in place, a well-cemented band actually protects the part of the tooth 
that is covered.   Next Susie will enter the treatment stage 
and visit the orthodontist once or twice a month, depending on the severity 
of her condition. During these visits the dentist will adjust 
the braces to increase the pressure on her teeth.   Last comes the 
<retention> stage. Susie's teeth have now been guided into a desirable 
new position. But because teeth sometimes may drift back to 
their original position, a retaining appliance is used to lock them in 
place. Usually this is a thin band of wire attached to the molars and 
stretching across the teeth. Susie may wear this only at night or for 
a few hours during the day.   Then comes the time when the last 
wire is removed and Susie walks out a healthier and more attractive 
girl than when she first went to the orthodontist.   How long 
will this take? Straightening one tooth that has come in wrong may 
take only a few months. Aligning all the teeth may take a year or more. 
An added complication such as a malformed jaw may take two or three 
years to correct. 

#WHAT IS THE COST?#

THE charge for a 
complete full-banded job differs in various parts of the country. Work 
that might cost $500 to $750 in the South could cost $750 to $1,200 
in New York City or Chicago. An average national figure for two 
to three years of treatment would be $650 to $1,000.   "Factors 
in the cost of treatment are the length of time involved and the skill 
and education of the practitioner", says Dr& Brodie.   To 
become an orthodontist, a man must first be licensed by his state as 
a dentist, then he must spend at least two years in additional training 
to acquire a license as a specialist.   "Costs may seem high, 
but they used to be even higher", says Dr& Brodie. "Fees 
are about half to a third of what they were 25 years ago".   The 
reason? People today are aware of the value of orthodontics, and 
as a result there are more practitioners in the field.   Most 
orthodontists require an initial payment to cover the cost of diagnostic 
materials and construction of the appliances, but usually the remainder 
of the cost may be spread over a period of months or years. In many 
cities in the United States clinics associated with dental schools 
will take patients at a nominal fee. Some municipal agencies will 
pay for orthodontic treatment for children of needy parents. 

#RESEARCH 
HELPS FAMILIES#

GROWTH studies have been carried on consistently 
by orthodontists. Dr& Brodie has 30-year records of head growth, 
started 20 minutes after children's births.   "In the 
past anyone who said that 90% of all malocclusion is hereditary was 
scoffed at; now we know that family characteristics <do> affect tooth 
formation to a large extent", he says. "Fortunately through our 
growth studies we have been able to see what nature does, and that 
helps us know what we can do".   This knowledge both modifies 
and dictates diagnosis and treatment. For example, a boy may inherit 
a small jaw from one ancestor and large teeth from another. In the past 
an orthodontist might have tried, over four or five years, to straighten 
and fit the boy's large teeth into a jaw that, despite some growth, 
would never accommodate them. Now a dentist can recommend extraction 
immediately.   In other cases, in view of present-day knowledge 
of head growth, orthodontists will recommend waiting four or five 
years before treatment. The child is kept on call, and the orthodontist 
watches the growth. "Nature often takes care of the problem", 
says Dr& Brodie. "A child with a certain type of head and teeth 
will outgrow tooth deformity".   That is why Dr& Brodie 
asks parents not to insist, against their dentist's advice, that their 
child have orthodontic work done too early. "Both because of our 
culture's stress on beauty and our improved economic conditions, 
some parents demand that the dentist try to correct a problem before it 
is wise to do so. Let the orthodontist decide the proper time to start 
treatment", he urges.   Superior new material for orthodontic 
work is another result of research. Plastics are easier to handle 
than the vulcanized rubber formerly used, and they save time and money. 
Plaster of Paris, once utilized in making impressions of teeth, has 
been replaced by alginates (gelatin-like material) that work quickly 
and accurately and with least discomfort to a child. 

#PREVENTION IS 
BEST#

AS a rule, the earlier general dental treatment is started, 
the less expensive and more satisfactory it is likely to be.

"After your child's baby teeth are all in- usually at the age 
of two and one half to three- it's time for that first dental appointment", 
Dr& Brodie advises. "Then see that your youngster 
has a routine checkup once a year".   To help prevent orthodontic 
problems from arising, your dentist can do these things: _@_ 
He can correct decay, thus preventing early loss of teeth. If 
a child <does> lose his first teeth prematurely because of decay- 
and if no preventive steps are taken- the other teeth may shift out 
of position, become overcrowded and malformed. In turn the other teeth 
are likely to decay because food particles may become impacted in them. 
From time to time the medium mentions other people "around him", 
who were "on the other side", and reports what they are saying. After 
a while there come initials and names, and he is interested to hear 
some rather unusual family nicknames. As the hour progresses, the 
sensitive seems to probe more deeply and to make more personal and specific 
statements. There are a few prognoses of coming events. ## 

ANOTHER MEDIUM, another sitter, would produce a somewhat different 
content, but in general it would probably sound much like the foregoing 
reading. Some mediums speak in practical, down-to-earth terms, while 
others may stress the spiritual. Not all, as a matter of fact, consider 
themselves "mediums" in the sense of receiving messages from 
the deceased. In fact, some sensitives rule this out, preferring to 
consider their expression as strictly extra-sensory perception 
(~ESP), 
on this side of the "veil". However that may be, people are 
known to go to mediums for diverse reasons. Perhaps they are mourning 
a recent death and want comfort, to feel in touch with the deceased, 
or seek indications for future plans. They may, of course, be curiosity 
seekers- or they may just be interested in the phenomenon of mediumship.

The mediums with whom the Parapsychology Foundation 
is working in this experiment are in a waking or only slightly dissociated 
state, so that the sitter can make comments, ask and answer questions, 
instead of talking with a "control" who speaks through an 
entranced sensitive. What we have here is in some ways more like an ordinary 
conversation.   But it is not really only a conversation. 
Many a sitter (in a personal sitting) has been amazed to realize that 
the medium was describing very vividly his state of mind. He himself 
might not have been really aware of his own mood; it had been latent, 
unspecified, semi-conscious and only partly realized- until she 
described it to him! Most striking indeed is this beyond-normal ability 
to put a finger on "pre-conscious" moods and to clarify them.

However, in the next visit that the researcher made to the medium, 
he did not receive a personal reading. Instead he brought with 
him the names of some people he had never met and of whom the medium 
knew nothing. For this was to be a "proxy sitting". ##

AS 
WAS NOTED earlier, it is important that in valid, objective study of 
this sort of communication, the interested sitter should be separated 
from the sensitive. Dr& Karlis Osis, Director of Research at 
the Parapsychology Foundation, described the basis for the experiment 
in a TOMORROW article, ("New Research on Survival After 
Death", Spring 1958). He remarked: "It has been clearly established 
that in a number of instances the message did not come from a 
spirit but was received telepathically by the medium from the sitter".

The possibility has to be ruled out that the medium's ~ESP 
may tap the memory of the sitter, and to do this, the two central 
characters in this drama must be separated.   One way to do 
this is by "proxy sittings", wherein the person seeking a message 
does not himself meet with the medium but is represented by a substitute, 
the proxy sitter. If the latter knows nothing about the absent sitter 
except his name (given by the experimenter), he cannot possibly 
give any clues, conscious or unconscious, far less ask leading questions. 
All he can do is to be an objective and careful questioner, seeking 
to help the sensitive in clarifying and making more specific her paranormal 
impressions.   Sometimes in these experiments "appointment 
sittings" are used. Here the absent sitter makes a "date" 
with a communicator (someone close to him who is deceased), asking him 
to "come in" at a certain hour, when a channel will be open for 
him. In this case the proxy sitter will know only the name of the communicator, 
nothing else. He gives this to the medium at the appointed 
time, and the reading then will be concerned with material about or messages 
from the communicator. As always, a tape recording or detailed 
notes are made, and a typescript of this is sent to the absent sitter.

So this proxy situation has set up at least a partial barrier 
between the medium's ~ESP and the absent sitter's mind. It 
is now harder to assume telepathy as a basis for the statements- though 
research still does not know how far afield ~ESP <can> range. 
##

NOW THE ORIGINAL absent sitter must decide whether the 
statements are meaningful to <him>. Here again laboratory approaches 
are being evolved, for it is recognized how "elastic" these readings 
can be, how they can apply to many people, and are often stated 
in general terms all too easily applied to any individual's own case. 
If you look at a reading meant for someone else, you will probably 
see that many of the items could be considered as applicable to you, 
even when you were not in the picture at all! An interested sitter 
may think the sensitive has made a "hit", describing something accurately 
for him, but can he really be sure that another sitter, hearing 
the same statement, would not apply it subjectively to his own circumstances? 
It is, of course, easy to see how "~J" will mean 
Uncle Jack to one person and little Jane to another. "A journey", 
"a 
little white house", "a change of outlook", can apply to many 
people. And even more complex items can be interpreted to conform 
to one's own point of view, which is by nature so personal. One sitter 
may think "a leather couch" identifies a reading as surely directed 
to him; to another, it seems that nobody but his father ever 
used the phrase, "Atta boy"!   To get around this quite difficult 
corner, there is one first aid to objectiveness: prevent the 
distant sitter from knowing which reading <was> for him. If he is 
not told which of four or five readings was meant for him, he can more 
readily assess each item in a larger frame: "Does that statement 
really sound as if it were for me, significant in my particular life? 
Or am I taking something that could really apply to almost anybody, 
and forgetting that many other people probably have had a similar 
experience"?   Conversely, experimenters would consider as impressive 
such statements as the following, which, if they turned out 
to be hits, are so unusual as to be really significant:   "He 
had four children, two sets of twins. After being a lawyer for twenty-five 
years he started studying for the ministry. Part of his house 
had been moved to the other side of the road. He died of typhoid in 
1921".   Methods have been developed of assigning "weights" 
to statements; that is, it is known empirically that names beginning 
with ~R are more common than those beginning with ~Z; that 
fewer women are named Miranda than Elizabeth; that in the United 
States more people die of heart disease than of smallpox. So each reading 
can be given a weight and each reading a score by adding up these 
weights. Specific dates would be important, as would double names. 
Various categories have been explored to find out about these "empirical 
probabilities" against which to measure the readings. ##

IN 
THE PARAPSYCHOLOGY FOUNDATION'S long-range experiment, readings 
are made by a variety of sensitives for a large number of cooperating 
sitters, trying to throw light on this question of the significance 
of mediumistic statements. It is very important indeed, in the field 
of extra-sensory perception and its relation to the survival hypothesis, 
to know whether the statements are actually only those which any 
intuitive person might venture and an eager sitter attach to himself. 
Or, on the other hand, are unlikely facts being stated, facts which are 
in themselves significant and <not> easily applicable to everybody? 
That is one thing the experiments are designed to find out.

So, after the sitting has been held, several readings at one time 
are mailed, and the distant sitter (whose name or whose communicator's 
name was given to the medium) must mark each little item as Correct 
(Hit), Incorrect (Miss), Doubtful, or Especially Significant (applying 
to him and, he feels, not to anyone else). He is required to 
mark every item and to indicate which reading he feels is actually his. 
All these evaluations are then totted up and tabulated, by adding 
up the Hits and Significants, with the weight placed on those in the 
sitter's own reading. That is, if he marks as most correct a reading 
<not> meant for him, the total experimental score falls.   Conversely, 
if he gives a heavy rating to his own reading, and finds more 
accurate facts in it than in the others, a point is chalked up for 
the intrinsic, objective meaningfulness of this type of mediumistic material. 
And there are some positive results, though the final findings 
will not be known for a long time- and then further research can 
be formulated.   In another approach to the same procedure, the 
content of the readings is analyzed so as to see how the particular medium 
is likely to slant her statements. Does she often speak of locations, 
of cause of death? Does she accurately give dates, ages, kind 
of occupation? It is possible to find out in which categories most 
of her correct statements fall, and where she makes most of her "hits". 
Now when, so to speak, the cream has been skimmed off, and the 
items in the successful categories separated out, the sitter can be asked 
to consider and rate only this concentrated "cream", where the 
sensitive is at her best. ##

MEDIUMISTIC IMPRESSIONS are evidently 
of all sorts and seem to involve all the senses. "I feel cold", 
the medium says, or "My leg aches", "My head is heavy". 
Or perhaps she hears words or sounds: "There's such a noise 
of loud machinery", or "I hear a child crying", or "He says 
we're all here and glad to see you". Maybe an entire scene comes 
into consciousness, with action and motion, or a static view: "a 
house under a pine tree, with a little stone path going up to the door". 
The sensitive often seems to smell definite odors, too, or subjectively 
feels emotions. Sometimes she displays amazing eidetic imagery 
and seems to see all details in perspective, as if the scene were actually 
there. If pressed by the sitter for more detail, she may be able 
to bring the picture more into focus and see more sharply, almost 
as if she were physically going closer.   If asked how she gets 
her impressions, she probably can only say that she "just gets them"- 
some more vividly than others. Perhaps this is not so extraordinary 
after all. Even in normal experience one gets impressions without 
knowing exactly how- of atmosphere, of one another's personalities, 
moods, intentions.   Of course, there is an element of training 
here: these gifted people, by concentration, study, guidance, 
have 
learned to develop their power. Simply <using> it increases its intensity, 
I was told by one sensitive.   Nor does a medium automatically 
know how to interpret her imagery. Impressions often appear in 
a symbolic form and cannot be taken at face value. It is apparently 
by symbols that the unconscious speaks to the conscious, and the medium 
has to translate these into meaning. If communication with an entity 
on the "other side" is taking place, this too may assume the form 
of clairvoyant symbolism.   During one reading an image appeared 
of a prisoner in irons. But this did not necessarily refer to an 
actual jail; taken with other details it could have referred to a state 
of mental or spiritual confinement. In this connection it is worth 
noting how names are sometimes obtained. Though they are often heard 
clairaudiently, as if a voice were speaking them, in other cases they 
are apprehended visually as symbols: a slope to signify the name 
"Hill", for instance. One medium saw two sheets flapping on a line 
and found that the name Shietz was significant to the sitter. 
_@_ Farming is confining. The farmer's life must be arranged 
to meet the demands of crops and livestock.   Livestock must be 
tended every day, routinely. A slight change in the work schedule may 
cut the production of cows or chickens.   Even if there are no 
livestock, the farmer cannot leave the farm for long periods, particularly 
during the growing season.   The worker who lives on a farm 
cannot change jobs readily. He cannot leave the farm to take work 
in another locality on short notice; such a move may mean a loss of 
capital. _@_ Hard physical labor and undesirable hours are a part 
of farm life. The farmer must get up early, and, at times, work late 
at night. Frequently he must work long hours in the hot sun or cold 
rain. No matter how well work is planned, bad weather or unexpected 
setbacks can cause extra work that must be caught up.   It may 
not be profitable for a part-time farmer to own the labor-saving machinery 
that a full-time farmer can invest in profitably. _@_ Production 
may fall far below expectations. Drought, hail, disease, and insects 
take their toll of crops. Sickness or loss of some of the livestock 
may cut into the owner's earnings, even into his capital. _@_ 
Returns for money and labor invested may be small even in a good 
year.   The high cost of land, supplies, and labor make it difficult 
to farm profitably on a part-time basis. Land within commuting 
distance of a growing city is usually high in price, higher if it has 
subdivision possibilities. Part-time farmers generally must pay higher 
prices for supplies than full-time farmers because they buy in smaller 
quantities. If the farm is in an industrial area where wages are high, 
farm labor costs will also be high.   A part-time farmer needs 
unusual skill to get as high production per hen, per cow, or per acre 
as can be obtained by a competent full-time farmer. It will frequently 
be uneconomical for him to own the most up-to-date equipment. He 
may have to depend upon custom service for specialized operations, 
such as spraying or threshing, and for these, he may have to wait his 
turn. There will be losses caused by emergencies that arise while he 
is away at his off-farm job. _@_ The farm may be an additional 
burden if the main job is lost. This may be true whether the farm is 
owned or rented.   If the farm is rented, the rent must be paid. 
If it is owned, taxes must be paid, and if the place is not free 
of mortgage, there will be interest and 
payments on the principal to take care of. _ADVANTAGES_ _@_A 
farm provides a wholesome and healthful environment for children. 
It gives them room to play and plenty of fresh air. The children can 
do chores adapted to their age and ability. Caring for a calf, a pig, 
or some chickens develops in children a sense of responsibility for 
work. _@_ Part-time farming gives a measure of security if the 
regular job is lost, <provided> the farm is owned free of debt and furnishes 
enough income to meet fixed expenses and minimum living costs. 
_@_ For some retired persons, part-time farming is a good way 
to supplement retirement income. It is particularly suitable for those 
who need to work or exercise out of doors for their health. _@_ 
Generally, the s 
ame level of living costs less in the country than 
in the city. The savings are not as great, however, as is sometime supposed. 
Usually, the cost of food and shelter will be somewhat less on 
the farm and the cost of transportation and utilities somewhat more. 
Where schools, fire and police protection, and similar municipal services 
are of equal quality in city and country, real estate taxes are 
usually about the same. _@_ A part-time farmer and his family can 
use their spare time profitably. _@_ Some persons consider the 
work on a farm recreational. For some white-collar workers it is a 
welcome change from the regular job, and a physical conditioner. 

#LAND, 
LABOR, AND EQUIPMENT NEEDED#

Part-time farming can take comparatively 
little land, labor, and equipment- or a great deal. It depends 
on the kind and the scale of the farming operation.   General 
requirements for land, labor, and equipment are discussed below. Specific 
requirements for each of various types of enterprises are discussed 
on pages 8 to 14. _LAND_ Three quarters to 1 acre of good land 
is enough for raising fruits and vegetables for home use, and for a 
small flock of chickens, a cow, and two pigs. You could not, of course, 
raise feed for the livestock on a plot this small.   If you 
want to 
raise feed or carry out some enterprise on a larger scale, you'll 
need more land.   In deciding how much land you want, take into 
account the amount you'll need to bring in the income you expect. But 
consider also how much you and your family can keep up along with your 
other work. The cost of land and the prospects for appreciation in 
value may influence your decision. Some part-time farmers buy more 
land than they need in anticipation of suburban development. This is 
a highly speculative venture.   Sometimes a desired acreage is offered 
only as part of a larger tract. When surplus land is not expensive 
to buy or to keep up, it is usually better to buy it than to buy 
so small an acreage that the development of adjoining properties might 
impair the residential value of the farm. _LABOR_ If you have a 
year-round, full-time job you can't expect to grow much more than your 
family uses- unless other members of the family do a good deal of 
the work or you hire help. As a rule, part-time farmers hire little 
help.   In deciding on the enterprises to be managed by family labor, 
compare the amount of labor that can be supplied by the family with 
the labor needs of various enterprises listed in table 1.   List 
the number of hours the family can be expected to work each month. 
You may want to include your own regular vacation period if you have 
one. Do not include all your spare time or all your family's spare 
time- only what you are willing to use for farm work. _EQUIPMENT_ 
If you are going to produce for home use only, you will need only 
hand tools. You will probably want to hire someone to do the plowing, 
however.   For larger plantings, you'll need some kind of power 
for plowing, harrowing, disking, and cultivating. If you have a planting 
of half an acre or more you may want to buy a small garden tractor 
(available for $300 to $500 with attachments, 1960 prices). These 
tractors are not entirely satisfactory for plowing, particularly on heavier 
soils, so you may still want to hire someone to do the plowing.

Cost of power and machinery is often a serious problem to the 
small-scale farmer. If you are going to farm for extra cash income on 
a part-time basis you must keep in mind the needed machinery investments 
when you choose among farm enterprises.   You can keep your 
machinery investment down by buying good secondhand machinery, by sharing 
the cost and upkeep of machinery with a neighbor, and by hiring 
someone with machinery to do certain jobs. If an expensive and specialized 
piece of machinery is needed- such as a spray rig, a combine, 
or a binder- it is better to pay someone with a machine to do the work. 

#SELECTING A FARM#

Before you look for a farm you'll need 
to know (1) the kind and scale of farming you want to undertake; and 
(2) 
whether you want to buy or rent.   Information on pages 8 to 14 
may help you in deciding on the kind and scale of your farming venture.

If you are not well acquainted with the area in which you wish 
to locate, or if you are not sure that you and your family will like 
and make a success of farming, usually you would do better to rent 
a place for a year or two before you buy.   Discussed below are 
some of the main things to look for when you select a part-time farm. 
_LOCATION_ _NEARNESS TO WORK.-_ Choose a location within easy 
commuting distance of both the regular job and other employment opportunities. 
Then if you change jobs you won't necessarily have to sell 
the farm. The presence of alternative job opportunities also will 
make the place easier to sell if that should become desirable. 
Obviously the farm should be on an all-weather road. _NEARNESS TO 
MARKETS.-_ If you grow anything to sell you will need markets nearby. 
If you plan to sell fresh vegetables or whole milk, for example, 
you should be close to a town or city. _KIND OF NEIGHBORHOOD.-_ 
Look for a farm in a neighborhood of well-kept homes. There are slums 
in the country as well as in the city. Few rural areas are protected 
by zoning. A tavern, filling station, junk yard, rendering plant, 
or some other business may go up near enough to hurt your home or to 
hurt its value. _FACILITIES IN THE AREA.-_ Check on the schools 
in the area, the quality of teaching, and the provision for transportation 
to and from them.   Find out whether fire protection, sewage 
system, gas, water mains, and electrical lines are available in the 
locality. If these facilities are not at the door, getting them may 
cost more than you expect. You may have to provide them yourself or 
get along without them.   You cannot get along without an adequate 
supply of pure water. If you are considering a part-time farm where 
the water must be provided by a well, find out if there is a good well 
on the farm or the probable cost of having one drilled. A pond may 
provide adequate water for livestock and garden. Pond water can be filtered 
for human use, but most part-time farmers would not want to go 
to so much trouble. The following amounts of water are needed per day 
for livestock and domestic uses. _TOPOGRAPHY AND SOIL_ Is the land 
suited to the crops you intend to raise? If you can't tell, get 
help from your county agricultural agent or other local specialist. 
Soil type, drainage, or degree of slope can make the difference between 
good crops and poor ones. Small areas that aren't right for a certain 
crop may lie next to areas that are well suited to that crop. _THE 
HOUSE_ Will the house on any part-time farm you are considering 
make a satisfactory full-time residence? How much will it cost to 
do any necessary modernizing and redecorating? If the house is not 
wired adequately for electricity or if plumbing or a central heating 
system must be installed, check into the cost of making these improvements. 

#BUYING A FARM#

The value of the farm to you will depend 
on- _@_ Its worth as a place to live. _@_ The value of 
the products you can raise on it. _@_ The possibilities of selling 
the property later on for suburban subdivision.   Decide first 
what the place is worth to you and your family as a home in comparison 
with what it would cost to live in town. Take into account the difference 
in city and county taxes, insurance rates, utility rates, and 
the cost of travel to work.   Next, estimate the value of possible 
earnings of the farm. To do this, set up a plan on paper for operating 
the farm. List the kind and quantity of things the farm can be 
expected to produce in an average year. Estimate the value of the produce 
at normal prices. The total is the probable gross income from farming.

To find estimated net farm income, subtract estimated 
annual farming expenditures from probable gross income from farming. Include 
as expenditures an allowance for depreciation of farm buildings 
and equipment. Also count as an expense a charge for the labor to be 
contributed by the family. It may be hard to decide what this labor 
is worth, but charge something for it. Otherwise, you may pay too much 
for the farm and get nothing for your labor.   To figure the 
value of the farm in terms of investment income, divide the estimated 
annual net farm income by the percentage that you could expect to get 
in interest if the money were invested in some other way. 
Everyone with a personal or group tragedy to relate had to be given his 
day in court as in some vast collective dirge. For almost two months, 
the defendant and the world heard from individuals escaped from the 
grave about fathers and mothers, graybeards, adolescents, babies, starved, 
beaten to death, strangled, machine-gunned, gassed, burned. One 
who had been a boy in Auschwitz had to tell how children had been selected 
by height for the gas chambers. The gruesome humor of the Nazis 
was not forgotten- the gas chamber with a sign on it with the name 
of a Jewish foundation and bearing a copper Star of David- nor 
the gratuitous sadism of ~SS officers. Public relations strategists 
everywhere, watching the reaction of the German press, the liberal 
press, the lunatic-fringe press, listening to their neighbors, studying 
interviews with men and women on the street, cried out: Too much, 
too much- the mind of the audience is becoming dulled, the horrors 
are losing their effect. And still another witness, one who had crawled 
out from under a heap of corpses, had to tell how the victims had 
been forced to lay themselves head to foot one on top of the other before 
being shot. **h   Most of this testimony may have been legally 
admissible as bearing on the <corpus delicti> of the total Nazi 
crime but seemed subject to question when not tied to the part in it 
of the defendant's Department of Jewish Affairs. Counsel for the 
defense, however, shrewdly allowing himself to be swept by the current 
of dreadful recollections, rarely raised an objection. Would not the 
emotional catharsis eventually brought on by this awfulness have a calming, 
if not exhausting, effect likely to improve his client's chances? 
Those who feared "emotionalism" at the Trial showed less 
understanding than Dr& Servatius of the route by which man achieves 
the distance necessary for fairness toward enemies. Interruptions 
came 
largely from the bench, which numerous times rebuked the Attorney 
General for letting his witnesses run on, though it, too, made no serious 
effort to choke off the flow.   But there was a contrast even 
more decisive than a hunger for fact between the Trial in Jerusalem 
and those in Moscow and New York. In each of the last, the trial 
<marked the beginning of a new course:> in Moscow the liquidation 
of the Old Bolsheviks and the tightening of Stalin's dictatorship; 
in the United States the initiation of militant anti-Communism, 
with the repentant ex-Communist in the vanguard. These trials were 
properly termed "political cases" in that the trial itself was 
a political act producing political consequences. But what could the 
Eichmann Trial initiate? Of what new course could it mark the beginning? 
The Eichmann case looked to the past, not to the future. 
It was the conclusion of the first phase of a process of tragic recollection, 
and of refining the recollection, that will last as long as there 
are Jews. As such, it was beyond politics and had no need of justification 
by a "message". ##

"IT IS NOT AN individual 
that is in the dock at this historical trial"- said Ben Gurion, 
"and not the Nazi regime alone- but anti-Semitism throughout 
history". How could supplying Eichmann with a platform on which to 
maintain that one could collaborate in the murder of millions of Jews 
<without being an anti-Semite> contribute to a verdict against anti-Semitism? 
And if it was not an individual who was in the dock, why 
was the Trial, as we shall observe later, all but scuttled in the 
attempt to prove Eichmann a "fiend"? These questions touch the 
root of confusion in the prosecution's case.   It might be contended, 
of course, that Eichmann in stubbornly denying anti-Semitic 
feelings was lying or insisting on a private definition of anti-Semitism. 
But in either event he was the wrong man for the kind of case outlined 
by Ben Gurion and set forth in the indictment. In such a case 
the defendant should serve as a clear example and not have to be tied 
to the issue by argument. One who could be linked to anti-Semitism 
only by overcoming his objections is scarcely a good specimen of the 
Jew-baiter throughout the ages. Shout at Eichmann though he might, 
the Prosecutor could not establish that the defendant was falsifying 
the way he felt about Jews or that what he did feel fell into the generally 
recognized category of anti-Semitism. Yes, he believed that the 
Jews were "enemies of the Reich", and such a belief is, of course, 
typical of "patriotic" anti-Semites; but he believed in the 
Jew-as-enemy in a kind of abstract, theological way, like a member 
of a cult speculating on the nature of things. The real question was 
how one passed from anti-Semitism of this sort to murder, and the answer 
to this question is not to be found in anti-Semitism itself. In 
regard to Eichmann, 
it was to be found in the Nazi outlook, which contained 
a principle separate from and far worse than anti-Semitism, a 
principle by which the poison of anti-Semitism itself was made more virulent. 
Perhaps under the guidance of this Nazi principle one could, 
as Eichmann declared, feel personally friendly toward the 
Jews and still be their murderer. Not through fear of disobeying orders, 
as Eichmann kept trying to explain, but through a peculiar giddiness 
that began in a half-acceptance of the vicious absurdities contained 
in the Nazi interpretation of history and grew with each of Hitler's 
victories into a permanent light-mindedness and sense of magical 
rightness that was able to respond to any proposal, and the more outrageous 
the better, "Well, let's try it". At any rate, the substance 
of Eichmann's testimony was that all his actions flowed from 
his membership in the party and the ~SS, and though the Prosecutor 
did his utmost to prove actual personal hatred of Jews, his success 
on this score was doubtful and the anti-Semitic lesson weakened to 
that extent. ##

BUT IF THE Trial did not expose the special 
Nazi mania so deadly to Jews as well as to anyone upon whom it happened 
to light, neither did it warn very effectively against the ordinary 
anti-Semitism of which the Nazis made such effective use in Germany 
and wherever else they could find it. If anti-Semitism was on trial 
in Jerusalem, why was it not identified, and with enough emphasis 
to capture the notice of the world press, in its connection with the 
activities of Eichmann's Department of Jewish Affairs, as exemplified 
by the betrayal and murder of Jews by non-police and non-party anti-Semites 
in Germany, as well as in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary? 
The infamous Wansee Conference called by Heydrich in January 
1942, to organize the material and technical means to put to death 
the eleven million Jews spread throughout the nations of Europe, was 
attended by representatives of major organs of the German state, including 
the Reich Minister of the Interior, the State Secretary in 
charge of the Four Year Plan, the Reich Minister of Justice, the 
Under Secretary of Foreign Affairs. The measures for annihilation 
proposed and accepted at the Conference affected industry, transportation, 
civilian agencies of government. Heydrich, in opening the Conference, 
followed the reasoning and even the phraseology of the order 
issued earlier by Goering which authorized the Final Solution as 
" a complement to" previous "solutions" for eliminating the Jews 
from German living space through violence, economic strangulation, 
forced emigration, and evacuation. In other words, the promulgators 
of the murder plan made clear that physically exterminating the Jews 
was but an extension of the anti-Semitic measures already operating 
in every phase of German life, and that the new conspiracy counted on 
the general anti-Semitism that had made those measures effective, as 
a readiness for murder. This, in fact, it turned out to be. Since 
the magnitude of the plan made secrecy impossible, once the wheels had 
began to turn, persons controlling German industries, social institutions, 
and armed forces became, through their anti-Semitism or their 
tolerance of it, conscious accomplices of Hitler's crimes; whether 
in the last degree or a lesser one was a matter to be determined individually.

What more could be asked for a Trial intended to warn 
the world against anti-Semitism than this opportunity to expose the 
exact link between the respectable anti-Semite and the concentration-camp 
brute? Not in Eichmann's anti-Semitism but in the anti-Semitism 
of the sober German man of affairs lay the potential warning 
of the Trial. No doubt many of the citizens of the Third Reich had 
conceived their anti-Semitism as an "innocent" dislike of Jews, 
as do others like them today. The Final Solution proved that the 
Jew-baiter of any variety exposes himself as being implicated in the 
criminality and madness of others. Ought not an edifying Trial have 
made every effort to demonstrate this once and for all by showing how 
representative types of "mere" anti-Semites were drawn step by 
step into the program of skull-bashings and gassings? The Prosecutor 
in his opening remarks did refer to "the germ of anti-Semitism" 
among the Germans which Hitler "stimulated and transformed". But 
if there was evidence at the Trial that aimed over Eichmann's 
head 
at his collaborators in the societies where he functioned, the press 
seems to have missed it. ##

NOR DID THE Trial devote much 
attention to exposing the usefulness of anti-Semitism to the Nazis, 
both in building their own power and in destroying that of rival organizations 
and states. Certainly, one of the best ways of warning the 
world against anti-Semitism is to demonstrate its workings as a dangerous 
weapon. Eichmann himself is a model of how the myth of the enemy-Jew 
can be used to transform the ordinary man of present-day society 
into a menace to <all> his neighbors. Do patriots everywhere know 
enough about how the persecution of the Jews in Germany and later in 
the occupied countries contributed to terrorizing the populations, splitting 
apart individuals and groups, arousing the meanest and most dishonest 
impulses, pulverizing trust and personal dignity, and finally 
forcing people to follow their masters into the abyss by making them 
partners in unspeakable crimes? The career of Eichmann made the Trial 
a potential showcase for anti-Semitic demoralization: fearful 
of being mistaken for a Jew, he seeks protection in his Nazi uniform; 
clinging to the enemy-Jew idea, he is forced to overcome habits of 
politeness and neighborliness; once in power he begins to give vent 
to a criminal opportunism that causes him to alternate between megalomania 
and envy of those above him. "Is this the type of citizen you 
desire"? the Trial should have asked the nations. But though this 
characterization in no way diminished Eichmann's guilt, the Prosecutor, 
more deeply involved in the tactics of a criminal case than a 
political one, would have none of it.   Finally, if the mission 
of the Trial was to convict anti-Semitism, how could it have failed 
to post before the world the contrasting fates of the countries in which 
the Final Solution was aided by native Jew-haters- i&e&, 
Germany, Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia- and those in which it 
met the obstacle of human solidarity- Denmark, Holland, Italy, Bulgaria, 
France? Should not everyone have been awakened to it as an 
outstanding fact of our time that the nations poisoned by anti-Semitism 
proved less fortunate in regard to their own freedom than those whose 
citizens saved their Jewish compatriots from the transports? Wasn't 
this meaning of Eichmann's experience in various countries 
worth highlighting? 
##

AS THE FIRST collective confrontation 
of the Nazi outrage, the Trial of Eichmann represents a recovery 
of the Jews from the shock of the death camps, a recovery that took fifteen 
years and which is still by no means complete (though let no one 
believe that it could be hastened by silence). Only across a distance 
of time could the epic accounting begin. It is already difficult to 
recall how little we knew before the Trial of what had been done to 
the Jews of Europe. It is not that the facts of the persecution were 
unavailable; most of the information elicited in Jerusalem had 
been brought to the surface by the numerous War Crimes tribunals and 
investigating commissions, and by reports, memoirs, and survivors' 
accounts. 
IN POUGHKEEPSIE, N& Y&, in 1952, a Roman Catholic hospital 
presented seven Protestant physicians with an ultimatum to quit the 
Planned Parenthood Federation or to resign from the hospital staff. 
Three agreed, but four declined and were suspended. After a flood of 
protests, they were reinstated at the beginning of 1953. The peace 
of the community 
was badly disturbed, and people across the nation, reading of the 
incident, felt uneasy.   In New York City in 1958, the city's 
Commissioner of Hospitals refused to permit a physician to provide 
a Protestant mother with a contraceptive device. He thereby precipitated 
a bitter controversy involving Protestants, Jews and Roman 
Catholics that continued for two months, until the city's Board 
of Hospitals lifted the ban on birth-control therapy.   A year 
later in Albany, N& Y&, a Roman Catholic hospital barred an 
orthopedic surgeon because of his connection with the Planned Parenthood 
Association. Immediately, the religious groups of the city were 
embroiled in an angry dispute over the alleged invasion of a man's 
right to freedom of religious belief and conscience.   These incidents, 
typical of many others, dramatize the distressing fact that no 
controversy during the last several decades has caused more tension, 
rancor and strife among religious groups in this country than the birth-control 
issue. It has flared up periodically on the front pages of 
newspapers in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in 
municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies. It has erupted 
on the national level in the matter of including birth-control 
information and material in foreign aid to underdeveloped countries. Where 
it is not actually erupting, it rumbles and smolders in sullen resentment 
like a volcano, ready to explode at any moment.   The 
time has come for citizens of all faiths to unite in an effort to remove 
this divisive and nettlesome issue from the political and social life 
of our nation.   The first step toward the goal is the establishment 
of a new atmosphere of mutual good will and friendly communication 
on other than the polemical level. Instead of emotional recrimination, 
loaded phrases and sloganeering, we need a dispassionate study 
of the facts, a better understanding of the opposite viewpoint and a more 
serious effort to extend the areas of agreement until a solution is 
reached.   "All too frequently", points out James O'Gara, 
managing editor of <Commonweal>, "Catholics run roughshod over 
Protestant sensibilities in this matter, by failure to consider the 
reasoning behind the Protestant position and, particularly, by their 
jibes at the fact that Protestant opinion on birth control has changed 
in recent decades". All too often our language is unduly 
harsh.

The second step is to recognize the substantial agreement- 
frequently blurred by emotionalism and inaccurate newspaper reporting- 
already existing between Catholics and non-Catholics concerning the 
over-all objectives of family planning. Instead of Catholics' being 
obliged or even encouraged to beget the greatest possible number 
of offspring, as many non-Catholics imagine, the ideal of <responsible> 
parenthood is stressed. Family planning is encouraged, so that parents 
will be able to provide properly for their offspring.   Pope 
Pius /12, declared in 1951 that it is possible to be exempt from 
the normal obligation of parenthood for a long time and even for the 
whole duration of married life, if there are serious reasons, such as 
those often mentioned in the so-called medical, eugenic, economic and 
social "indications". This means that such factors as the health 
of the parents, particularly the mother, their ability to provide their 
children with the necessities of life, the degree of population density 
of a country and the shortage of housing facilities may legitimately 
be taken into consideration in determining the number of offspring.

These are substantially the same factors considered by non-Catholics 
in family planning. The laws of many states permit birth control 
only for medical reasons. The Roman Catholic Church, however, 
sanctions a much more liberal policy on family planning.   Catholics, 
Protestants and Jews are in agreement over the objectives of 
family planning, but disagree over the methods to be used. The Roman 
Catholic Church sanctions only abstention or the rhythm method, also 
known as the use of the infertile or safe period. The Church considers 
this to be the method provided by nature and its divine Author: 
It involves no frustration of nature's laws, but simply an intelligent 
and disciplined use of them. With the exception of the Roman 
Catholic and the Orthodox Catholic Churches, most churches make no 
moral distinction between rhythm and mechanical or chemical contraceptives, 
allowing the couple free choice.   Here is a difference in 
theological belief where there seems little chance of agreement. The 
grounds for the Church's position are Scriptural (Old Testament), 
the teachings of the fathers and doctors of the early Church, the 
unbroken tradition of nineteen centuries, the decisions of the highest 
ecclesiastical authority and the natural law. The latter plays a prominent 
role in Roman Catholic theology and is considered decisive, 
entirely apart from Scripture, in determining the ethical character of 
birth-prevention methods.   The Roman Catholic natural-law tradition 
regards as self-evident that the primary objective purpose of 
the conjugal act is procreation and that the fostering of the mutual 
love of the spouses is the secondary and subjective end. This conclusion 
is based on two propositions: that man by the use of his reason 
can ascertain God's purpose in the universe and that God makes known 
His purpose by certain "given" physical arrangements.   Thus, 
man can readily deduce that the primary objective end of the conjugal 
act is procreation, the propagation of the race. Moreover, man 
may not supplant or frustrate the physical arrangements established by 
God, who through the law of rhythm has provided a natural method for 
the control of conception. Believing that God is the Author of this 
law and of all laws of nature, Roman Catholics believe that they are 
obliged to obey those laws, not frustrate or mock them.   Let 
it be granted then that the theological differences in this area between 
Protestants and Roman Catholics appear to be irreconcilable. But 
people differ in their religious beliefs on scores of doctrines, without 
taking up arms against those who disagree with them. Why is it 
so different in regard to birth control? It is because each side has 
sought to <implement> its distinctive theological belief through legislation 
and thus indirectly <force> its belief, or at least the practical 
consequences thereof, upon others.   It is always a temptation 
for a religious organization, especially a powerful or dominant 
one, to impose through the clenched fist of the law its creedal viewpoint 
upon others. Both Roman Catholics and Protestants have succumbed 
to this temptation in the past.   Consider what happened during 
World War /1,, when the Protestant churches united to push the 
Prohibition law through Congress. Many of them sincerely believe 
that the use of liquor in any form or in any degree is intrinsically 
evil and sinful. With over four million American men away at war, Protestants 
forced their distinctive theological belief upon the general 
public. With the return of our soldiers, it soon became apparent that 
the belief was not shared by the great majority of citizens. The attempt 
to enforce that belief ushered in a reign of bootleggers, racketeers, 
hijackers and gangsters that led to a breakdown of law unparalleled 
in our history. The so-called "noble experiment" came to an 
inglorious end.   That tumultuous, painful and costly experience 
shows clearly that a law expressing a moral judgment cannot be enforced 
when it has little correspondence with the general view of society. 
That experience holds a lesson for us all in regard to birth control 
today.   Up to the turn of the century, contraception was condemned 
by <all> Christian churches as immoral, unnatural and contrary 
to divine law. This was generally reflected in the civil laws of Christian 
countries. Today, the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches 
stand virtually alone in holding that conviction. The various Lambeth 
Conferences, expressing the Anglican viewpoint, mirror the gradual 
change that has taken place among Protestants generally. 
In 1920, the Lambeth Conference repeated its 1908 condemnation of contraception 
and issued "an emphatic warning against the use of unnatural 
means for the avoidance of conception, together with the grave dangers- 
physical, moral, and religious- thereby incurred, and against 
the evils which the extension of such use threaten the race". Denouncing 
the view that the sexual union is an end in itself, the Conference 
declared: "We steadfastly uphold what must always be regarded 
as the governing considerations of Christian marriage. One is the 
primary purpose for which marriage exists, namely, the continuance 
of the race through the gift and heritage of children; the other is 
the paramount importance in married life of deliberate and thoughtful 
self-control". The Conference called for a vigorous campaign against 
the open or secret sale of contraceptives.   In 1930, the Lambeth 
Conference again affirmed the primary purpose of marriage to be 
the procreation of children, but conceded that, in certain limited circumstances, 
contraception might be morally legitimate.   In 1958, 
the Conference endorsed birth control as the responsibility laid by 
God on parents everywhere.   Many other Protestant denominations 
preceded the Anglicans in such action. In March, 1931, 22 out 
of 28 members of a committee of the Federal Council of Churches ratified 
artificial methods of birth control. "As to the necessity", 
the committee declared, "for some form of effective control of the 
size of the family and the spacing of children, and consequently of control 
of conception, there can be no question **h. There is general agreement 
also that sex union between husbands and wives as an expression 
of mutual affection <without> relation to procreation is right".

Since then, many Protestant denominations have made separate 
pronouncements, in which they not only approved birth control, but declared 
it at times to be a <religious duty>. What determines the morality, 
they state, is not the <means> used, but the <motive>. In 
general, the means (excluding abortion) that prove most effective are 
considered the most ethical.   This development is reflected in 
the action taken in February, 1961, by the general board of the 
National 
Council of Churches, the largest Protestant organization in the 
~US. The board approved and commended the use of birth-control 
devices as a part of Christian responsibility in family planning. It 
called for opposition to laws and institutional practices restricting 
the information or availability of contraceptives.   The general 
board declared: "Most of the Protestant churches hold contraception 
and periodic continence to be morally right when the motives are 
right **h. The general Protestant conviction is that motives, rather 
than methods, form the primary moral issue, provided the methods are 
limited to the prevention of conception".   An action once universally 
condemned by all Christian churches and forbidden by the civil 
law is now not only approved by the overwhelming majority of Protestant 
denominations, but also deemed, at certain times, to be a positive 
<religious duty>. This viewpoint has now been translated into 
action by the majority of people in this country. Repeated polls have 
disclosed that most married couples are now using contraceptives in the 
practice of birth control.   For all concerned with social-welfare 
legislation, the significance of this radical and revolutionary 
change in the thought and habits of the vast majority of the American 
people is clear, profound and far-reaching. To try to oppose the general 
religious and moral conviction of such a majority by a legislative 
fiat would be to invite the same breakdown of law and order that was 
occasioned by the ill-starred Prohibition experiment.   This brings 
us to the fact that the realities we are dealing with lie not in 
the field of civil legislation, but in the realm of conscience and religion: 
They are moral judgments and matters of theological belief. 
Conscience and religion are concerned with private <sin:> The civil 
law is concerned with public <crimes>. Only confusion, failure 
and anarchy result when the effort is made to impose upon the civil authority 
the impossible task of policing private homes to preclude the 
possibility of sin. Among the chief victims of such an ill-conceived 
imposition would be religion itself. 
##

On April 17, 1610, the sturdy little three-masted bark, <Discovery>, 
weighed anchor in St& Katherine's Pool, London, and 
floated down the Thames toward the sea. She carried, besides her captain, 
a crew of twenty-one and provisions for a voyage of exploration 
of the Arctic waters of North America.   Seventeen months later, 
on September 6, 1611, an Irish fishing boat sighted the <Discovery> 
limping eastward outside Galway Bay. When she reached port, 
she was found to have on board only eight men, all near starvation. The 
captain was gone, and the mate was gone. The man who now commanded 
her had started the voyage as an ordinary seaman.   What disaster 
struck the <Discovery> during those seventeen months? What happened 
to the fourteen missing men? These questions have remained 
one of the great sea mysteries of all time. For hundreds of years, the 
evidence available consisted of (1) the captain's fragmentary journal, 
(2) a highly prejudiced account by one of the survivors, (3) a note 
found in a dead man's desk on board, and (4) several second-hand 
reports. All told, they offered a highly confused picture.   But 
since 1927, researchers digging into ancient court records and legal 
files have been able to find illuminating pieces of information. Not 
enough to do away with all doubts, but sufficient to give a fairly accurate 
picture of the events of the voyage.   Historians have had 
two reasons for persisting so long in their investigations. First, 
they wanted to clarify a tantalizing, bizarre enigma. Second, they believed 
it important to determine the fate of the captain- a man whose 
name is permanently stamped on our maps, on American towns and counties, 
on a great American river, and on half a million square miles 
of Arctic seas.   The name: <Henry Hudson>.   This 
is the story of his last tragic voyage, as nearly as we are able- or 
ever, probably, will be able- to determine:   The sailing in 
the spring of 1610 was Hudson's fourth in four years. Each time 
his objective had been the same- a direct water passage from Western 
Europe to the Far East. In 1607 and 1608, the English Muscovy 
Company had sent him northward to look for a route over the North Pole 
or across the top of Russia. Twice he had failed, and the Muscovy 
Company indicated it would not back him again.   In 1609, the 
Dutch East India Company hired Hudson, gave him two learned geographers, 
fitted him out with a ship called the <Half Moon>, and supplied 
him with Dutch sailors. This time he turned westward, to the 
middle Atlantic coast of North America. His chief discovery was important- 
the Great North (later, the Hudson) River- but it produced 
no northwest passage. ##

When the <Half Moon> put in at 
Dartmouth, England, in the fall of 1609, word of Hudson's findings 
leaked out, and English interest in him revived. The government 
forbade Hudson to return to Amsterdam with his ship. He thereupon went 
to London and spent the winter talking to men of wealth. By springtime, 
he was supported by a rich merchant syndicate under the patronage 
of Henry, Prince of Wales. He had obtained and provisioned a veteran 
ship called the <Discovery> and had recruited a crew of twenty-one, 
the largest he had ever commanded.   The purpose of this 
fourth voyage was clear. A century of exploration had established that 
a great land mass, North and South America, lay between Europe 
and 
the Indies. One by one, the openings in the coast that promised a 
passage through had been explored and discarded. In fact, Hudson's 
sail up the Great North River had disposed of one of the last hopes.

But there remained one mysterious, unexplored gap, far to 
the north. Nearly twenty-five years before, Captain John Davis had 
noted, as he sailed near the Arctic Circle, "a very great gulf, the 
water whirling and roaring, as it were the meeting of tides". He 
named this opening, between Baffin Island and Labrador, the "Furious 
Overfall". (Later, it was to be called Hudson Strait.)

In 1602, George Waymouth, in the same little <Discovery> that 
Hudson now commanded, had sailed 300 miles up the strait before his 
frightened men turned the ship back. Hudson now proposed to sail all 
the 
way through and test the seas beyond for the long-sought waterway.

Even Hudson, experienced in Arctic sailing and determined as he 
was, must have had qualms as he slid down the Thames. Ahead were perilous, 
ice-filled waters. On previous voyages, it had been in precisely 
such dangerous situations that he had failed as a leader and captain. 
On the second voyage, he had turned back at the frozen island of 
Novaya Zemlya and meekly given the crew a certificate stating that 
he did so of his own free will- which was obviously not the case. On 
the third voyage, a near-mutiny rising from a quarrel between Dutch 
and English crew members on the <Half Moon> had almost forced him 
to head the ship back to Amsterdam in mid-Atlantic.   Worse, 
his present crew included five men who had sailed with him before. Of 
only one could he be sure- young John Hudson, his second son. The 
mate, Robert Juet, who had kept the journal on the <half Moon>, 
was experienced- but he was a bitter old man, ready to complain or 
desert at any opportunity. Philip Staffe, the ship's carpenter, was 
a good worker, but perversely independent. Arnold Lodley and Michael 
Perse were like the rest- lukewarm, ready to swing against Hudson 
in a crisis.   But men willing to sail at all into waters where 
wooden ships could be crushed like eggs were hard to find. Hudson 
knew he had to use these men as long as he remained an explorer. And 
he refused to be anything else.   It is believed that Hudson 
was related to other seafaring men of the Muscovy Company and was 
trained 
on company ships. He was a Londoner, married, with three sons. 
(The common misconception that he was Dutch and that his first name 
was Hendrik stem from Dutch documents of his third voyage.) In 1610, 
Hudson was probably in his early forties, a good navigator, a stubborn 
voyager, but otherwise fatally unsuited to his chosen profession. 
##

Hudson's first error of the fourth voyage occurred only a 
few miles down the Thames. There at the river's edge waited one Henry 
Greene, whom Hudson listed as a "clerk". Greene was in actuality 
a young ruffian from Kent, who had broken with his parents in 
order to keep the company he preferred- pimps, panders and whores. 
He was not the sort of sailor Hudson wanted his backers to see on board 
and he had Greene wait at Gravesend, where the <Discovery> picked 
him up.   For the first three weeks, the ship skirted up the 
east coast of Great Britain, then turned westward. On May 11, she 
reached Iceland. Poor winds and fog locked her up in a harbor the 
crew called "Lousie Bay". The subsequent two-weeks wait made the 
crew quarrelsome. With Hudson looking on, his protege Greene picked 
a fight with the ship's surgeon, Edward Wilson. The issue was 
settled on shore, Greene winning and Wilson remaining ashore, determined 
to catch the next fishing boat back to England. With difficulty, 
Hudson persuaded him to rejoin the ship, and they sailed from Iceland. 
##

Early in June, the <Discovery> passed "Desolation" 
(southern Greenland) and in mid-June entered the "Furious Overfall". 
Floating ice bore down from the north and west. Fog hung 
over the route constantly. Turbulent tides rose as much as fifty feet. 
The ship's compass was useless because of the nearness of the magnetic 
North Pole.   As the bergs grew larger, Hudson was 
forced to turn south into what is now Ungava Bay, an inlet of the 
great strait. After finding that its coasts led nowhere, however, he 
turned north again, toward the main, ice-filled passageway- and the 
crew, at first uneasy, then frightened, rebelled.   The trouble 
was at least partly Juet's doing. For weeks he had been saying that 
Hudson's idea of sailing through to Java was absurd. The great, 
crushing ice masses coming into view made him sound like the voice 
of pure reason. A group of sailors announced to Hudson that they would 
sail no farther.   Instead of quelling the dissension, as many 
captains of the era would have done (Sir Francis Drake lopped a man's 
head off under similar circumstances), Hudson decided to be reasonable. 
He went to his cabin and emerged carrying a large chart, which 
he set up in view of the crew. Patiently, he explained what he knew 
about their course and their objectives.   When Hudson had finished, 
the "town meeting" broke down into a general, wordy 
argument. 
One man remarked that if he had a hundred pounds, he would give ninety 
of them to be back in England. Up spoke carpenter Staffe, who 
said he wouldn't give <ten> pounds to be home. The statement was 
effective. The meeting broke up. Hudson was free to sail on. ## 

All through July the <Discovery> picked her way along the 450-mile-long 
strait, avoiding ice and rocky islands. On August 3, two massive 
headlands reared out of the mists- great gateways never before, 
so far as Hudson knew, seen by Europeans. To starboard was a cape 
a thousand feet high, patched with ice and snow, populated by thousands 
of screaming sea birds. To port was a point 200 feet high rising behind 
to a precipice of 2,000 feet. Hudson named the capes Digges and 
Wolstenholme, for two of his backers.   Hudson pointed the <Discovery> 
down the east coast of the newly discovered sea (now called 
Hudson Bay), confident he was on his way to the warm waters of the 
Pacific. After three weeks' swift sailing, however, the ship entered 
an area of shallow marshes and river deltas. The ship halted. The 
great "sea to the westwards" was a dead end.   This must have 
been Hudson's blackest discovery. For he seemed to sense at once 
that before him was no South Sea, but the solid bulk of the North 
American continent. This was the bitter end, and Hudson seemed to 
know he was destined to failure.   Feverishly, he tried to brush 
away this intuition. North and south, east and west, back and forth 
he sailed in the land-locked bay, plowing furiously forward until land 
appeared, then turning to repeat the process, day after day, week after 
week. Hundreds of miles to the north, the route back to England 
through the "Furious Overfall" was again filling with ice.

The men were at first puzzled, then angered by the aimless tacking. 
Once more, Juet's complaints were the loudest. Hudson's reply 
was to accuse the mate of disloyalty. Juet demanded that Hudson prove 
his charges in an open trial.   The trial was held September 
10. Hudson, presiding, heard Juet's defense, then called for testimony 
from crew members. Juet had made plentiful enemies, several men 
stepped forward. Hands on Bible, seaman Lodley and carpenter Staffe 
swore that Juet had tried to persuade them to keep muskets and swords 
in their cabins. Cook Bennett Mathues said Juet had predicted 
bloodshed on the ship. Others added that Juet had wanted to turn the 
ship homeward.   Hudson deposed Juet and cut his pay. The new 
mate was Robert Bylot, talented but inexperienced. There were other 
shifts and pay cuts according to the way individuals had conducted themselves. 
The important result, however, was that Juet and Francis 
Clemens, the deposed boatswain, became Hudson's sworn enemies.

As Hudson resumed his desperate criss-crossing of the little 
bay, every incident lessened the crew's respect for him. Once, 
after the <Discovery> lay for a week in rough weather, Hudson ordered 
the anchor raised before the sea had calmed. Just as it was being 
hauled inboard, a sea hit the ship. Michael Butt and Adame Moore 
were thrown off the capstan and badly injured. The anchor cable would 
have been lost overboard, but Philip Staffe was on hand to sever 
it with his axe.

Thomas Douglas, fifth Earl of Selkirk, a noble humanitarian 
Scot concerned with the plight of the crofters of his native Highlands, 
conceived a plan to settle them in the valley of the Red River 
of the North. Since the land he desired lay within the great northern 
empire of the Hudson's Bay Company, he purchased great blocks of 
the Comany's stock with the view to controlling its policies. Having 
achieved this end, he was able to buy 116,000 square miles in the 
valleys of the Red and Assiniboine rivers. The grant, which stretched 
southward to Lake Traverse- the headwaters of the Red- was 
made in May, 1811, and by October of that year a small group of Scots 
was settling for the winter at York Factory on Hudson Bay. Thus 
at the same time that William Henry Harrison was preparing to pacify 
the aborigines of Indiana Territory and winning fame at the battle 
of Tippecanoe, Anglo-Saxon settlement made a great leap into the 
center of the North American continent to the west of the American 
agricultural frontier.   Seven hundred miles south of York Factory, 
at "the Forks" of the Red and the Assiniboine, twenty-three 
men located a settlement in August 1812. By October the little 
colony about Fort Douglas (present-day Winnipeg) numbered 100. Within 
a few years the Scots, engaged in breaking the thick sod and stirring 
the rich soil of the valley, were joined by a group called <Meurons>. 
The latter, members of two regiments of Swiss mercenaries transported 
by Great Britain to Canada to fight the Americans in the 
War of 1812, had settled in Montreal and Kingston at the close of 
the war in 1815. Selkirk persuaded eighty men and four officers to go 
to Red River where they were to serve as a military force to protect 
his settlers from the hostile Northwest Company which resented the 
intrusion of farmers into the fur traders' empire. The mercenaries 
were little interested in farming and added nothing to the output of 
the farm plots on which all work was still done with hoes as late as 
1818.   It was the low yield of the Selkirk plots and the ravages 
of grasshoppers in 1818 that led to the dispersal of the settlement 
southward. When late in the summer the full extent of the damage was 
assessed, all but fifty of the Scots, Swiss and <metis> moved up 
the Red to the mouth of the Pembina river. Here they built huts and 
a stockade named Fort Daer after Selkirk's barony in Scotland. 
The new site was somewhat warmer than Fort Douglas and much closer 
to the great herds of buffalo on which the settlement must depend for 
food.   The Selkirk settlers had been anticipated in their move 
southward by British fur traders. For many years the Northwest Company 
had its southern headquarters at Prairie du Chien on the Mississippi 
River, some 300 miles southeast of present-day St& Paul, 
Minnesota. When in 1816 an act of Congress forced the foreign firm 
out of the United States, its British-born employees, now become American 
citizens- Joseph Rolette, Joseph Renville and Alexis Bailly- 
continued in the fur business. On Big Stone Lake near the 
headwaters of the Red River, Robert Dickson, Superintendent of 
the Western Indian Department of Canada, had a trading post and planned 
in 1818 to build a fort to be defended by twenty men and two small 
artillery pieces. His trading goods came from Canada to the Forks 
of Red River and from Selkirk's settlement he brought them south 
in carts. These carts were of a type devised in Pembina in the days 
of Alexander Henry the Younger about a decade before the Selkirk 
colony was begun. In 1802 Henry referred to "our new carts" as 
being about four feet off the ground and carrying five times as much as 
a horse could pack. They were held together by pegs and withes and 
in later times drawn by a single ox in thills.   It was Dickson 
who suggested to Lord Selkirk that he return to the Atlantic coast 
by way of the United States. In September 1817 at Fort Daer (Pembina) 
Dickson met the noble lord whom, with the help of a band of Sioux, 
he escorted to Prairie du Chien. During the trip Selkirk decided 
that the route through Illinois territory to Indiana and the eastern 
United States was the best route for goods from England to reach 
Red River and that the United States was a better source of supply 
for many goods than either Canada or England. Upon arriving at 
Baltimore, Selkirk on December 22 wrote to John Quincy Adams, 
Secretary of State at Washington, inquiring about laws covering trade 
with "Missouri and Illinois Territories". This traffic, he 
declared prophetically, "tho' it might be of small account at first, 
would increase with the progress of our Settlements **h". 
The route which he had traveled and which he believed might develop 
into a trade route was followed by his settlers earlier than he might 
have expected. In 1819 grasshoppers again destroyed the crop at "the 
Forks" (Fort Douglas) and in December 1819, twenty men left Fort 
Daer for the most northerly American outpost at Prairie du Chien. 
It was a three-month journey in the dead of winter followed by three 
months of labor on Mackinac boats. With these completed and ice 
gone from the St& Peter's River (present-day Minnesota river) 
their 250 bushels of wheat, 100 bushels of oats and barley and 30 bushels 
of peas and some chickens were loaded onto the flat-bottomed boats 
and rowed up the river to Big Stone Lake, across into Lake Traverse, 
and down the Red. They reached Fort Douglas in June 1820. This 
epic effort to secure seed for the colony cost Selkirk @1,040. 
Nevertheless so short was the supply of seed that the settlers were 
forced to retreat to Fort Daer for food. Thereafter seed and food became 
more plentiful and the colony remained in the north the year round.

Activity by British traders and the presence of a colony 
on the Red prompted the United State War Department in 1819 to send 
Lieutenant-Colonel Henry Leavenworth from Detroit to put a post 
300 miles northwest of Prairie du Chien, until then the most advanced 
United States post. In September 1822 two companies of infantry 
arrived at the mouth of the St& Peter's River, the head of navigation 
on the Mississippi, and began construction of Fort St& 
Anthony which, upon completion, was renamed in honor of its commander, 
Colonel Josiah Snelling.   It was from the American outposts 
that Red River shortages of livestock were to be made good. Hercules 
L& Dousman, fur trader and merchant at Prairie du Chien, contracted 
to supply Selkirk's people with some 300 head of cattle, and 
Alexis Bailly and Francois Labothe were hired as drovers. Bailly, 
after leaving Fort Snelling in August 1821, was forced to leave 
some of the cattle at the Hudson's Bay Company's post on Lake 
Traverse "in the Sieux Country" and reached Fort Garry, as the 
Selkirk Hudson's Bay Company center was now called, late in the 
fall. He set out on his 700-mile return journey with five families 
of discontented and disappointed Swiss who turned their eyes toward 
the United States. Observing their distressing condition, Colonel 
Snelling allowed these half-starved immigrants to settle on the military 
reservation.   As these Swiss were moving from the Selkirk 
settlement to become the first civilian residents of Minnesota, Dousman 
of Michilimackinac, Michigan, and Prairie du Chien was traveling 
to Red River to open a trade in merchandise. Early in 1822 he was 
at Fort Garry offering to bring in pork, flour, liquor and tobacco. 
Alexander McDonnell, governor of Red River, and James Bird, 
a chief factor of the Hudson's Bay Company, ordered such "sundry 
articles" to a value of @4,500.   For its part the Hudson's 
Bay Company was troubled by the approach of American settlement. 
As the time drew near for the drawing of the British-American frontier 
by terms of the agreement of 1818, the company suspected that the 
Pembina colony- its own post and Fort Daer- was on American 
territory. Accordingly Selkirk's agents ordered the settlers to move 
north, and by October, John Halkett had torn down both posts, floating 
the timber to "the Forks" in rafts. "I have done everything", 
he wrote, "to break up the whole of that unfortunate establishment 
**h". Despite Company threats, duly carried through, to cut 
off supplies of powder, ball, and thread for fishing nets, about 350 
persons stayed in the village. They would attempt to bring supplies 
from St& Louis or Prairie du Chien at "great expense as well 
as danger".   At Fort Garry some of the Swiss also decided 
to cast their lot with the United States, and in 1823 several families 
paid guides to take them to Fort Snelling. The disasters of 1825-1826 
caused more to leave. After heavy rains and an onslaught of mice, 
snow fell on October 15, 1825, and remained on the ground through 
a winter so cold that the ice on the Red was five feet thick. In April 
came a rapid thaw that produced high waters which did not recede until 
mid-June. On June 24 more than 400 families started the three-month 
trip across the plains to the Mississippi. By fall, 443 survivors 
of this arduous journey were clustered about Fort Snelling, but 
most of them were sent on to Galena and St& Louis, with a few going 
as far as Vevay, Indiana, a notable Swiss center in the United 
States. In 1837, 157 Red River people with more than 200 cattle were 
living on the reservation at Fort Snelling.   Below the fort, 
high bluffs extended uninterruptedly for six miles along the Mississippi 
River. At the point where they ended, another settlement grew 
up around a chapel built at the boat landing by Father Lucian Galtier 
in 1840. Its people, including Pierre Bottineau and other American 
Fur Company employees and the refugees from Fort Garry, were 
joined by the remaining Scots and Swiss from Fort Snelling when Major 
Joseph Plympton expelled them from the reservation in May 1840. 
The resultant town, platted in 1847 and named for the patron of Father 
Galtier's mission, St& Paul, was to become an important center 
of the fur trade and was to take on a new interest for those Selkirkers 
who remained at Red River.   While population at Fort 
Garry increased rapidly, from 2,417 in 1831 to 4,369 in 1840, economic 
opportunities did not increase at a similar rate. Accordingly, though 
the practice violated the no-trading provision of the Selkirk charter 
which reserved all such activity in merchandise and furs to the 
Hudson's Bay Company, some settlers went into trade. The Company 
maintained a store at which products of England could be purchased 
and brought in goods for the new merchants on the understanding that they 
refrain from trading in furs. Despite this prohibiton, by 1844 some 
of the Fort Garry merchants were trading with the Indians for furs. 
In June 1845, the Governor and Council of Assiniboia imposed 
a 20 per cent duty on imports via Hudson's Bay which were viewed 
as aimed at the "very vitals of the Company's trade and power". 
To reduce further the flow of goods from England, the Company's 
local officials asked that its London authorities refrain from forwarding 
any more trade goods to these men.   With their customary source 
of supply cut off, the Fort Garry free traders engaged three men 
to cart goods to them from the Mississippi country. Others carried 
pemmican from "the Forks" to St& Paul and goods from St& 
Paul to Red River, as in the summer of 1847 when one trader, Wells, 
transported twenty barrels of whisky to the British settlement. This 
trade was subject to a tariff of 7.5 per cent after February 1835, 
but much was smuggled into Assiniboia with the result that the duty 
was reduced by 1841 to 4 per cent on the initiative of the London committee.

The trade in a few commodities noted above was to grow 
in volume as a result of changes both north and south of the 49th parallel. 
The letters of the common soldiers are rich in humor. Indeed, no richer 
humor is to be found in the whole of American literature than in 
the letters of the semi-literate men who wore the blue and the gray. Some 
of their figures of speech were colorful and expressive. A Confederate 
observed that the Yankees were: "thicker than lise on a hen 
and a dam site ornraier". Another reported that his comrades were 
"in fine spirits pitching around like a blind dog in a meat house". 
A third wrote that it was "raining like poring peas on a rawhide".

Yanks were equally adept at figurative expression. One 
wrote: "[I am so hungry] I could eat a rider off his horse + 
snap at the stirups". A second reported that the dilapidated houses 
in Virginia "look like the latter end of original sin and hard times". 
A third remarked of slowness of Southerners: "They moved 
about from corner to corner, as uneasy as a litter of hungry leaches 
on the neck of a wooden god". Still another, annoyed by the brevity 
of a recently received missive, wrote: "Yore letter was short and 
sweet, jist like a roasted maget". A Yankee sergeant gave the following 
description of his sweetheart: "My girl is none of your one-horse 
girls. She is a regular stub and twister, double geered. **h 
She is well-educated and refined, all wildcat and fur, and Union from 
the muzzle to the crupper".   Humor found many modes of expression. 
A Texan wrote to a male companion at home: "What has become 
of Halda and Laura? **h When you see them again give them my 
love- not best respects now, but love by God". William R& Stillwell, 
an admirable Georgian whose delightful correspondence is preserved 
in the Georgia Department of Archives and History, liked 
to 
tease his wife in his letters. After he had been away from home about 
a year he wrote: "[Dear Wife] If I did not write and receive 
letters from you I believe that I would forgit that I was married 
I don't feel much like a maryed man but I never forgit it sofar 
as to court enny other lady but if I should you must forgive me as 
I am 
so forgitful". A Yank, disturbed by his increasing corpulence, wrote: 
"I am growing so fat **h I am a burden 2 myself". Another 
Yank parodied the familiar bedtime prayer: "Now I lay me down 
to sleep, The gray-backs o'er my body creep; If they should bite 
before I wake, I pray the Lord their jaws to break"". 
Charles 
Thiot, a splendid Georgia soldier, differed from most of his 
comrades in the ranks in that he was the owner of a large plantation, 
well-educated, and nearly fifty years of age. But he was very much like 
his associates in his hatred of camp routine. Near the end of his 
service he wrote that when the war was over he was going to buy two pups, 
name one of them "fall-in" and the other "close-up", and 
then shoot them both, "and that will be the end of 'fall-in' and 
'close-up'".   The soldiers who comprised the rank and file 
of the Civil War armies were an earthy people. They talked and 
wrote much about the elemental functions of the body. One of the most 
common of camp maladies was diarrhoea. Men of more delicate sensibilities 
referred to this condition as "looseness of the bowels"; but 
a much more common designation was "the sh-ts". A Michigan soldier 
stationed in Georgia wrote in 1864: "I expect to be tough 
as a knott as soon as I get over the Georgia Shitts". Johnny Rebs 
from the deep South who were plagued with diarrhoea after transfer 
to the Virginia front often informed their families that they were suffering 
from the "the Virginia quickstep".   A Georgia soldier 
gave his wife the following description of the cause and consequence 
of diarrhoea: "I have bin a little sick with diorah two or three 
days **h. I eat too much eggs and poark it sowered [on] my stomack 
and turn loose on me". A Michigan soldier wrote his brother: 
"I am well at present with the exception I have got the Dyerear 
and I hope thease few lines find you the same".   The letters 
which poured forth from camps were usually written under adverse circumstances. 
Save for brief periods in garrison or winter quarters, soldiers 
rarely enjoyed the luxury of a writing desk or table. Most of 
the letters were written in the hubbub of camp, on stumps, pieces of 
bark, drum heads, or the knee. In the South, after the first year of 
the war, paper and ink were very poor. Scarcity of paper caused many 
Southerners to adopt the practice of cross-writing, i&e&, after writing 
from left to right of the page in the usual manner, they gave the 
sheet a half turn and wrote from end to end across the lines previously 
written. Sometimes soldiers wrote letters while bullets were whizzing 
about their heads. A Yank writing from Vicksburg, May 28, 1863, 
stated "Not less than 50 balls have passed over me since I commenced 
writing **h. I could tell you of plenty narrow escapes, but we 
take no notice of them now". A Reb stationed near Petersburg informed 
his mother: "I need not tell you that I dodge pretty often 
**h for you can see that very plainly by the blots in this letter. Just 
count each blot a dodge and add in a few for I don't dodge every 
time". Another Reb writing under similar circumstances before Atlanta 
reported: "The Yankees keep Shooting so I am afraid they 
will knock over my ink, so I will close". #/3,#

The most 
common type of letter was that of soldier husbands to their wives. But 
fathers often addressed communications to their small children; and 
these, full of homely advice, are among the most human and revealing 
of Civil War letters. Rebs who owned slaves occasionally would include 
in their letters admonitions or greetings to members of the Negro 
community. Occasionally they would write to the slaves. Early in the 
war it was not uncommon for planters' sons to retain in camp Negro 
"body servants" to perform the menial chores such as cooking, foraging, 
cleaning the quarters, shining shoes, and laundering clothes. 
Sometimes these servants wrote or dictated for enclosure with the letters 
of their soldier-masters messages to their relatives and to members 
of their owners' families.   Unmarried soldiers carried on 
correspondence with sweethearts at home. Owing to the restrained usages 
characteristic of 19th-century America, these letters usually were 
stereotyped and revealed little depth of feeling.   Occasionally 
gay young blades would write vividly to boon companions at home about 
their amorous exploits in Richmond, Petersburg, Washington, or 
Nashville. But these comments are hardly printable. An Alabama soldier 
whose 
feminine associations were of the more admirable type wrote boastfully 
of his achievements among the Virginia belles: "They thout 
I was a saint. I told them some sweet lies and they believed it 
all **h I would tell them I got a letter from home stating that five 
of my Negroes had runaway and ten of Pappies But I wold say I 
recond he did not mind it for he had a plenty more left and then they 
would lean to me like a sore eyd kitten to a basin of milk". 
Some of the letters were pungently expressive. An Ohio soldier who, 
from a comrade just returned from leave, received an unfavorable comment 
on the conduct of his sister, took pen in hand and delivered himself 
thus: "[Dear Sis] Alf sed he heard that you and hardy was 
a runing together all the time and he though he wod gust quit having 
any thing mor to doo with you for he thought it was no more yuse **h. 
I think you made a dam good chouise to turn off as nise a feler as Alf 
dyer and let that orney thefin, drunkard, damed card playing Sun 
of a bich com to Sea you, the god damed theaf and lop yeard pigen tode 
helion, he is too orney for hel **h. i will Shute him as shore as 
i Sea him".   Initiation into combat sometimes elicited from 
soldier correspondents choice comments about their experiences and reactions. 
A Federal infantryman wrote to his father shortly after his 
first skirmish in Virginia: "Dear Pa **h. Went out a Skouting 
yesterday. We got to one house where there were five secessionist they 
brok + run and Arch holored out to shoot the ornery suns of biches 
and we all let go at them. Thay may say what they please but godamit 
Pa it is fun".   Some of the choicest remarks made by soldiers 
in their letters were in disparagement of unpopular officers. A Mississippi 
soldier wrote: "Our General Reub Davis **h is a vain, 
stuck-up, illiterate ass". An Alabamian wrote: "Col& Henry 
is [an ignoramus] fit for nothing higher than the cultivation 
of corn". A Floridian stated that his officers were "not fit to 
tote guts to a bear". On December 9, 1862, Sergeant Edwin H& 
Fay, an unusual Louisianan who held A&B& and M&A& degrees 
from Harvard University and who before the war was headmaster of a 
private school for boys in Louisiana, wrote his wife: "I saw Pemberton 
and he is the most insignificant puke I ever saw **h. His head 
cannot contain enough sense to command a regiment, much less a corps 
**h. Jackson **h runs first and his Cavalry are well drilled to follow 
their leader. He is not worth shucks. But he is a West Point 
graduate and therefore must be born to command".   Similar comments 
about officers are to be found in the letters of Northern soldiers. 
A Massachusetts soldier, who seems to have been a Civil War 
version of Bill Mauldin, wrote: "The officers consider themselves 
as made of a different material from the low fellows in the ranks 
**h. They get all the glory and most of the pay and don't earn ten 
cents apiece on the average, the drunken rascals". Private George 
Gray Hunter of Pennsylvania wrote: "I am well convinced in My 
own Mind that had it not been for officers this war would have ended 
long ago". Another Yankee became so disgusted as to state: "I 
wish to God one half of our officers were knocked in the head by slinging 
them against [the other half]".   No group of officers 
came in for more spirited denunciation than the doctors. One Federal 
soldier wrote: "The docters is no a conte **h hell will be filde 
with do[c]ters and offersey when this war is over". Shortly after 
the beginning of Sherman's Georgia campaign, an ailing Yank 
wrote his homefolk: "The surgeon insisted on Sending me to the hospital 
for treatment. I insisted on takeing the field and prevailed- 
thinking that I had better die by rebel bullets than [by] Union 
quackery".   The attitudes which the Rebs and Yanks took toward 
each other were very much the same and ranged over the same gamut 
of feeling, from friendliness to extreme hatred. The Rebs were, to 
a Massachusetts corporal, "fighting madmen or not men at all but whiskey 
+ gunpowder put into a human frame". A Pennsylvania soldier 
wrote that "they were the hardest looking set of men that Ever i saw 
they Looked as if they had been fed on vinegar and shavings **h". 
Private Jenkins Lloyd Jones of the Wisconsin Light Artillery wrote 
in his diary: "I strolled among the Alabamans on the right 
**h found some of the greenest specimens of humanity I think in the universe 
their ignorance being little less than the slave they despise 
with as imperfect a dialect 'They Recooned as how you'uns all would 
be a heap wus to we'uns all'". In a similar vein, but writing 
from the opposite side, Thomas Taylor, a private in the 6th Alabama 
Volunteers, in a letter to his wife, stated: "You know that 
my heart is with you but I never could have been satisfied to have staid 
at home when my country is invaded by a thievin foe By a set of 
cowardly Skunks whose Motto is Booty **h. 
THE POPULARITY OF FOLKLORE IN AMERICA STANDS IN DIRECT PROPORTION 
to the popularity of nationalism in America. And the emphasis on nationalism 
in America is in proportion to the growth of American influence 
across the world. Thus, if we are to observe American folklore 
in the twentieth century, we will do well to establish the relationships 
between folklore, nationalism and imperialism at the outset.

Historians have come to recognize two cardinal facts concerning nationalism 
and international influence. 1) Every age rewrites the events 
of its history in terms of what should have been, creating legends 
about itself that rationalize contemporary beliefs and excuse contemporary 
actions. What actually occurred in the past is seldom as important 
as what a given generation feels must have occurred. 2) As a country 
superimposes its cultural and political attitudes on others, it searches 
its heritage in hopes of justifying its aggressiveness. Its folklore 
and legend, usually disguised as history, are allowed to account 
for group actions, to provide a focal point for group loyalty, and to 
become a cohesive force for national identification.   One can apply 
these facts to Britain in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries 
as she spread her dominion over palm and pine, and they can be 
applied again to the United States in more recent years. The popularity 
of local color literature before the Spanish-American War, the 
steady currency of the Lincoln myth, the increased emphasis on the 
frontier west in our mass media are cases in point. Nor is it an accident 
that baseball, growing into the national game in the last 75 years, 
has become a microcosm of American life, that learned societies such 
as the American Folklore Society and the American Historical 
Association were founded in the 1880s, or that courses in American literature, 
American civilization, American anything have swept our school 
and college curricula.   Of course, nationalism has really 
outlived its usefulness in a country as world-oriented as ours, and its 
continued existence reflects one of the major culture lags of the 
twentieth-century 
United States. Yet nationalism has lost few of its 
charms for the historian, writer or man in the street. It is an understandable 
paradox that most American history and most American literature 
is today written from an essentially egocentric and isolationistic 
point of view at the very time America is spreading her dominion 
over palm and pine. After all, the average American as he lies and 
waits for the enemy in Korea or as she scans the newspaper in some vain 
hope of personal contact with the front is unconcerned that his or 
her plight is the result of a complex of personal, economic and governmental 
actions far beyond the normal citizen's comprehension and control. 
Anyone's identification with an international struggle, whether 
warlike or peaceful, requires absurd oversimplification and intense 
emotional involvement. Such identification comes for each group in each 
crisis by rewriting history into legend and developing appropriate 
national heroes.   In America, such self-deception has served 
a particularly useful purpose. A heterogeneous people have needed it 
to attain an element of cultural and political cohesion in a new and 
ever-changing 
land. But we must never forget, most of the appropriate 
heroes and their legends were created overnight, to answer immediate needs, 
almost always with conscious aims and ends. Parson Weems's George 
Washington became the symbol of honesty and the father image of 
the uniting States. Abraham Lincoln emerged as an incarnation of 
the national Constitution. Robert E& Lee represented the dignity 
needed by a rebelling confederacy. And their roles are paralleled by 
those of Patrick Henry, Nathan Hale, Andrew Jackson, Davy Crockett, 
Theodore Roosevelt and many, many more.   Therefore, the 
scholar, as he looks at our national folklore of the last 60 years, 
will be mindful of two facts. 1) Most of the legends that are created 
to fan the fires of patriotism are essentially propagandistic and are 
not folk legends at all. 2) The concept that an "American national 
folklore" exists is itself probably another propagandistic legend.

Folklore is individually created art that a homogeneous group 
of people preserve, vary and recreate through oral transmission. It 
has come to mean myths, legends, tales, songs, proverbs, riddles, superstitions, 
rhymes and such literary forms of expression. Related to 
written literature, and often remaining temporarily frozen in written 
form, it loses its vitality when transcribed or removed from its oral 
existence. Though it may exist in either literate or illiterate societies, 
it assumes a role of true cultural importance only in the latter.

In its propagandistic and commercial haste to discover our 
folk heritage, the public has remained ignorant of definitions such as 
this. Enthusiastically, Americans have swept subliterary and bogus 
materials like Paul Bunyan tales, Abe Lincoln anecdotes and labor 
union songs up as true products of our American oral tradition. Nor 
have we remembered that in the melting pot of America the hundreds of 
isolated and semi-isolated ethnic, regional and occupational groups did 
not fuse into a homogeneous national unit until long after education 
and industrialization 
had caused them to cast oral tradition aside as 
a means of carrying culturally significant material.   Naturally, 
such scholarly facts are of little concern to the man trying to make 
money or fan patriotism by means of folklore. That much of what he 
calls folklore is the result of beliefs carefully sown among the people 
with the conscious aim of producing a desired mass emotional reaction 
to a particular situation or set of situations is irrelevant. As long 
as his material is Americana, can in some way be ascribed to the masses 
and appears "democratic" to his audience, he remains satisfied.

From all this we can now see that two streams of development 
run through the history of twentieth-century American folklore. On 
the one side we have the university professors and their students, trained 
in Teutonic methods of research, who have sought out, collected 
and studied the true products of the oral traditions of the ethnic, 
regional and occupational groups that make up this nation. On the other 
we have the flag-wavers and the national sentimentalists who have been 
willing to use any patriotic, "frontier western" or colonial material 
willy-nilly. Unfortunately, few of the artists (writers, movie 
producers, dramatists and musicians) who have used American folklore 
since 1900 have known enough to distinguish between the two streams 
even in the most general of ways. After all, the field is large, difficult 
to define and seldom taught properly to American undergraduates. 
In addition, this country has been settled by many peoples of many 
heritages and their lore has become acculturated slowly, in an age of 
print and easy communication, within an ever-expanding and changing society. 
The problems confuse even the experts.   For that matter, 
the experts themselves are a mixed breed. Anthropologists, housewives, 
historians and such by profession, they approach their discipline 
as amateurs, collectors, commercial propagandists, analysts or some combination 
of the four. They have widely varying backgrounds and aims. 
They have little "esprit de corps".   The outlook for the 
amateur, for instance, is usually dependent on his fondness for local 
history or for the picturesque. His love of folklore has romanticism 
in it, and he doesn't care much about the dollar-sign or the footnote. 
Folklore is his hobby, and he, all too rightly, wishes it to remain 
as such. The amateur is closely related to the collector, who is 
actually no more than the amateur who has taken to the field. The collector 
enjoys the contact with rural life; he hunts folklore for the 
very "field and stream" reasons that many persons hunt game; and 
only rarely is he acutely concerned with the meaning of what he has 
located. Fundamentally, both these types, the amateur and the collector, 
are uncritical and many of them don't distinguish well between 
real folklore and bogus material.   But there are also the commercial 
propagandists and the analysts- one dominated by money, the other 
by nineteenth-century German scholarship. Both are primarily concerned 
with the uses that can be made of the material that the collector 
has found. Both shudder at the thought of proceeding too far beyond 
the sewage system and the electric light lines. The commercial propagandist, 
who can't afford to be critical, gets along well with the 
amateur, from whom he feeds, but he frequently steps on the analyst's 
toes by refusing to keep his material genuine. His standards are, 
of course, completely foreign to those of the analyst. To both the amateur 
and the commercial progandist the analyst lacks a soul, lacks appreciation 
with his endless probings and classifications. Dominated by 
the vicious circle of the university promotion system, the analyst looks 
down on and gets along poorly with the other three groups, although 
he cannot deny his debt to the collector.   The knowledge that 
most Americans have of folklore comes through contact with commercial 
propagandists and a few energetic amateurs and collectors. The work 
done by the analysts, the men who really know what folklore is all about, 
has no more appeal than any other work of a truly scientific sort 
and reaches a limited, learned audience. Publishers want books that 
will sell, recording studios want discs that will not seem strange to 
ears used to hillbilly and jazz music, grade and high schools want quaint, 
but moral, material. The analyst is apt to be too honest to fit 
in. As a result, most people don't have more than a vague idea what 
folklore actually is; they see it as a potpourri of charming, moral 
legends and patriotic anecdotes, with a superstition or remedy thrown 
in here and there. And so well is such ignorance preserved by the amateur 
and the money-maker that even at the college level most of the 
hundred-odd folklore courses given in the United States survive on sentiment 
and nationalism alone.   If one wishes to discuss a literary 
figure who uses folklore in his work, the first thing he must realize 
is that the literary figure is probably part of this ignorant American 
public. And while every writer must be dealt with as a special 
case, the interested student will want to ask himself a number of questions 
about each. Does the writer know the difference between an "ersatz" 
ballad or tall tale and a true product of the folk? When 
the writer uses material does he tamper with it to improve its commercial 
effect or does he leave it pure? Is the writer propagandistic? 
Is he swept away by sentiment and nostalgia for an America that was? 
Or does he sincerely want to tap the real springs of American 
attitude and culture regardless of how unpopular and embarrassing they 
may be?   When he gets the answers to his questions he will be 
discouraged. In the first place, a good many writers who are said to 
use folklore, do not, unless one counts an occasional superstition or 
tale. Robert Frost, for instance, writes about rural life in New England, 
but he does not include any significant amount of folklore in 
his poems. This has not, however, prevented publishers from labeling 
him a "folk poet", simply because he is a rural one. In the second 
place, a large number of writers, making a more direct claim than Frost 
to being "folk writers" of one sort or another, clearly make 
no distinctions between genuine and bogus material. Stephen Vincent 
Benet's <John Brown's Body> comes immediately to mind in this 
connection, as does John Steinbeck's <The Grapes of Wrath> 
and Carl Sandburg's <The People, Yes>. The last two writers 
introduce strong political bias into their works, and not unlike the union 
leaders that we will discuss soon, see folklore as a reservoir of 
protest by a downtrodden and publically silenced mass. Folklore, as 
used by such writers, really reflects images engraved into it by the very 
person using it. The folk are simply not homogeneous with respect 
to nation or political attitude. In fact, there is much evidence to 
indicate they don't care a bit about anything beyond their particular 
regional, ethnic and occupational limits. Nevertheless, with a reading 
public that longs for the "good old days" and with an awareness 
of our expanding international interests, it is easy for the Benets 
to obtain a magnified position in literature by use of all sorts of 
Americana, real or fake, and it is easy for the Steinbecks and Sandburgs 
to support their messages of reform by reading messages of reform 
into the minds of the folk. 
As part of the same arrangement, Torrio had, in the spirit of peace 
and good will, and in exchange for armed support in the April election 
campaign, bestowed upon O'Banion a third share in the Hawthorne 
Smoke Shop proceeds and a cut in the Cicero beer trade. The coalition 
was to prove inadvisable.   O'Banion was a complex and frightening 
man, whose bright blue eyes stared with a kind of frozen candour 
into others'. He had a round, frank Irish face, creased in a 
jovial grin that stayed bleakly in place even when he was pumping bullets 
into someone's body. He carried three guns- one in the right 
trouser pocket, one under his left armpit, one in the left outside coat 
pocket- and was equally lethal with both hands. He killed accurately, 
freely, and dispassionately. The police credited him with twenty-five 
murders but he was never brought to trial for one of them. 
Like a fair number of bootleggers he disliked alcohol. He was an expert 
florist, tenderly dextrous in the arrangement of bouquets and wreaths. 
He had no apparent comprehension of morality; he divided humanity 
into "right guys" and "wrong guys", and the wrong ones he 
was always willing to kill and trample under. He had what was described 
by a psychologist as a "sunny brutality". He walked with a heavy 
list to the right, as that leg was four inches shorter than the other, 
but the lurch did not reduce his feline quickness with his guns. Landesco 
thought him "just a superior sort of plugugly" but he was, 
in fact, with his aggression and hostility, and nerveless indifference 
to risking or administering pain, a casebook psychopath. He was also 
at this time, although not so interwoven in high politics and the rackets 
as Torrio and Capone, the most powerful and most dangerous mob 
leader in the Chicago underworld, the roughneck king.   O'Banion 
was born in poverty, the son of an immigrant Irish plasterer, 
in the North Side's Little Hell, close by the Sicilian quarter 
and Death Corner. He had been a choir boy at the Holy Name Cathedral 
and also served as an acolyte to Father O'Brien. The influence 
of Mass was less pervasive than that of the congested, slum tenements 
among the bawdy houses, honkytonks, and sawdust saloons of his birthplace; 
he ran wild with the child gangs of the neighbourhood, and 
went through the normal pressure-cooker course of thieving, police-dodging, 
and housebreaking. At the age of ten, when he was working as 
a newsboy in the Loop, he was knocked down by a streetcar which resulted 
in his permanently shortened leg. Because of this he was known as 
Gimpy (but, as with Capone and his nickname of Scarface, never in 
his presence). In his teens O'Banion was enrolled in the vicious 
Market Street gang and he became a singing waiter in McGovern's 
Cafe, a notoriously low and rowdy dive in North Clark Street, where 
befuddled customers were methodically looted of their money by the singing 
waiters before being thrown out. He then got a job with the Chicago 
<Herald-Examiner> as a circulation slugger, a rough fighter 
employed to see that his paper's news pitches were not trespassed upon 
by rival vendors. He was also at the same time gaining practical 
experience as a safe breaker and highwayman, and learning how to shoot 
to kill from a Neanderthal convicted murderer named Gene Geary, later 
committed to Chester Asylum as a homicidal maniac, but whose eyes 
misted with tears when the young Dion sang a ballad about an Irish 
mother in his clear and syrupy tenor.   O'Banion's first conflict 
with the police came in 1909, at seventeen, when he was committed 
to Bridewell Prison for three months for burglary; two years 
later he served another three months for assault. Those were his only 
interludes behind bars, although he collected four more charges on his 
police record in 1921 and 1922, three for burglary and one for robbery. 
But by now O'Banion's political pull was beginning to be effective. 
On the occasion of his 1922 indictment the $10,000 bond was 
furnished by an alderman, and the charge was <nolle prossed>. On one 
of his 1921 ventures he was actually come upon by a Detective Sergeant 
John J& Ryan down on his knees with a tool embedded in a labour 
office safe in the Postal Telegraph Building; the jury wanted 
better evidence than that and he was acquitted, at a cost of $30,000 
in bribes, it was estimated. As promptly as Torrio, O'Banion jumped 
into bootlegging. He conducted it with less diplomacy and more spontaneous 
violence than the Sicilians, but he had his huge North Side 
portion to exploit and he made a great deal of money. Unlike the 
Sicilians, he additionally conducted holdups, robberies, and safe-cracking 
expeditions, and refused to touch prostitution. He was also personally 
active in ward politics, and by 1924 O'Banion had acquired 
sufficient political might to be able to state: "I always deliver 
my borough as per requirements".   But whose requirements? 
Until 1924 O'Banion pistoleers and knuckle-duster bullyboys had 
kept his North Side domain solidly Democratic. There was a question-and-answer 
gag that went around at that time: Q& "Who'll 
carry the Forty-second and Forty-third wards"? A& "O'Banion, 
in his pistol pocket". But as November 1924 drew close the Democratic 
hierarchy 
was sorely troubled by grapevine reports that O'Banion 
was being wooed by the opposition, and was meeting and conferring 
with important Republicans. To forestall any change of allegiance, 
the Democrats hastily organised a testimonial banquet for O'Banion, 
as public reward for his past services and as a reminder of where 
his loyalties lay.   The reception was held in a private dining 
room of the Webster Hotel on Lincoln Park West. It was an interesting 
fraternisation of ex-convicts, union racketeers, ward heelers, 
sold-out officials, and gunmen. The guest list is in itself a little 
parable of the state of American civic life at this time. It included 
the top O'Banion men and Chief of Detectives Michael Hughes.

When Mayor Dever heard of the banquet he summoned Hughes 
for an explanation of why he had been dishonouring the police department 
by consorting with these felons and fixers. Hughes said that he had 
understood the party was to be in honour of Jerry O'Connor, the 
proprieter of a Loop gambling house. "But when I arrived and recognised 
a number of notorious characters I had thrown into the detective 
bureau basement half a dozen times, I knew I had been framed, and 
withdrew almost at once".   In fact, O'Connor was honoured 
during the ceremony with the presentation of a $2500 diamond stickpin. 
There was a brief interruption while one of O'Banion's men 
jerked out both his guns and threatened to shoot a waiter who was pestering 
him for a tip. Then O'Banion was presented with a platinum 
watch set with rubies and diamonds.   This dinner was the start 
of a new blatancy in the relationship between the gangs and the politicians, 
which, prior to 1924, says Pasley, "had been maintained with 
more or less stealth", but which henceforth was marked by these ostentatious 
gatherings, denounced by a clergyman as "Belshazzar feasts", 
at which "politicians fraternized cheek by jowl with gangsters, 
openly, in the big downtown hotels". Pasley continued: "They 
became an institution of the Chicago scene and marked the way to the 
moral and financial collapse of the municipal and county governments 
in 1928-29".   However, this inaugural feast did its sponsors 
no good whatever. O'Banion accepted his platinum watch and the tributes 
to his loyalty, and proceeded with the bigger and better Republican 
deal. On Election Day- November 4- he energetically marshalled 
his force of bludgeon men, bribers, and experts in forging repeat 
votes. The result was a landslide for the Republican candidates.

This further demonstration of O'Banion's ballooning power 
did not please Torrio and Capone. In the past year there had been 
too many examples of his euphoric self-confidence and self-aggrandisement 
for their liking. He behaved publicly with a cocky, swaggering truculence 
that offended their vulpine Latin minds, and behaved towards 
them personally with an unimpressed insolence that enraged them beneath 
their blandness. They were disturbed by his idiotic bravado- as, 
when his bodyguard, Yankee Schwartz, complained that he had been snubbed 
by Dave Miller, a prize-fight referee, chieftain of a Jewish 
gang and one of four brothers of tough reputation, who were Hirschey, 
a gambler-politician in loose beer-running league with Torrio and O'Banion, 
Frank, a policeman, and Max, the youngest. To settle this 
slight, O'Banion went down to the La Salle Theatre in the Loop, 
where, he had learned, Dave Miller was attending the opening of 
a musical comedy. At the end of the performance, Dave and Max came 
out into the brilliantly lit foyer among a surge of gowned and tuxedoed 
first nighters. O'Banion drew his guns and fired at Dave, severely 
wounding him in the stomach. A second bullet ricocheted off Max's 
belt buckle, leaving him unhurt but in some distress. O'Banion 
tucked away his gun and walked out of the theatre; he was neither 
prosecuted nor even arrested. That sort of braggadocio, for that sort 
of reason, in the view of Torrio and Capone, was a nonsense. 
A further example of the incompatible difference in personalities was 
when two policemen held up a Torrio beer convoy on a West Side street 
and demanded $300 to let it through. One of the beer-runners telephoned 
O'Banion- on a line tapped by the detective bureau- and 
reported the situation. O'Banion's reaction was: "Three hundred 
dollars! To them bums? Why, I can get them knocked off for 
half that much". Upon which the detective bureau despatched rifle 
squads to prevent trouble if O'Banion should send his gunmen out 
to deal with the hijacking policemen. But in the meantime the beer-runner, 
unhappy with this solution, telephoned Torrio and returned to 
O'Banion with the message: "Say, Dionie, I just been talking 
to Johnny, and he said to let them cops have the three hundred. He 
says he don't want no trouble".   But Torrio and Capone had 
graver cause to hate and distrust the Irishman. For three years, 
since the liquor territorial conference, Torrio had, with his elastic 
patience, and because he knew that retaliation could cause only violent 
warfare and disaster to business, tolerated O'Banion's impudent 
double-crossing. They had suffered, in sulky silence, the sight of 
his sharp practice in Cicero.   When, as a diplomatic gesture 
of amity and in payment for the loan of gunmen in the April election, 
Torrio had given O'Banion a slice of Cicero, the profits from 
that district had been $20,000 a month. In six months O'Banion had 
boosted the profits to $100,000 a month- mainly by bringing pressure 
to bear on fifty Chicago speak-easy proprietors to shift out to the 
suburb. These booze customers had until then been buying their supplies 
from the Sheldon, Saltis-McErlane, and Druggan-Lake gangs, 
and now they were competing for trade with the Torrio-Capone saloons; 
once again O'Banion's brash recklessness had caused a proliferation 
of ill will. The revenue from O'Banion's Cicero territory 
went up still higher, until the yield was more than the Torrio-Capone 
takings from the far bigger trade area of Chicago's South and 
West Sides. But he still showed no intention of sharing with the 
syndicate. At last, even the controlled Torrio was unable to hold still, 
and he tentatively suggested that O'Banion should take a percentage 
in the Stickney brothels in return for one from his Cicero beer 
concession. O'Banion's reply was a raucous laugh and a flat refusal.

Still more jealous bitterness was engendered by the O'Banion 
gang's seizure from a West Side marshalling yard of a freight-car 
load of Canadian whisky worth $100,000 and by one of the biggest 
coups of the Prohibition era- the Sibley warehouse robbery, 
which became famous for the cool brazenness of the operation. Here was 
stored $1,000,000 worth of bonded whisky. These 1750 cases were carted 
off in a one-night operation by the O'Banion men, who left in 
their stead the same number of barrels filled with water.

A tsunami may be started by a sea bottom slide, an earthquake 
or a volcanic eruption. The most infamous of all was launched by the 
explosion of the island of Krakatoa in 1883; it raced across the Pacific 
at 300 miles an hour, devastated the coasts of Java and Sumatra 
with waves 100 to 130 feet high, and pounded the shore as far away 
as San Francisco.   The ancient Greeks recorded several catastrophic 
inundations by huge waves. Whether or not Plato's tale of 
the lost continent of Atlantis is true, skeptics concede that the myth 
may have some foundation in a great tsunami of ancient times. Indeed, 
a tremendously destructive tsunami that arose in the Arabian Sea 
in 1945 has even revived the interest of geologists and archaeologists 
in the Biblical story of the Flood.   One of the most damaging 
tsunami on record followed the famous Lisbon earthquake of November 
1, 1755; its waves persisted for a week and were felt as far away 
as the English coast. Tsunami are rare, however, in the Atlantic 
Ocean; they are far more common in the Pacific. Japan has had 15 
destructive ones (eight of them disastrous) since 1596. The Hawaiian 
Islands are struck severely an average of once every 25 years.

In 1707 an earthquake in Japan generated waves so huge that they piled 
into the Inland Sea; one wave swamped more than 1,000 ships and 
boats in Osaka Bay. A tsunami in the Hawaiian Islands in 1869 
washed away an entire town (Ponoluu), leaving only two forlorn trees 
standing where the community had been. In 1896 a Japanese tsunami killed 
27,000 people and swept away 10,000 homes.   The dimensions 
of these waves dwarf all our usual standards of measurement. An ordinary 
sea wave is rarely more than a few hundred feet long from crest to 
crest- no longer than 320 feet in the Atlantic or 1,000 feet in the 
Pacific. But a tsunami often extends more than 100 miles and sometimes 
as much as 600 miles from crest to crest. While a wind wave never 
travels at more than 60 miles per hour, the velocity of a tsunami in 
the open sea must be reckoned in hundreds of miles per hour. The greater 
the depth of the water, the greater is the speed of the wave; 
Lagrange's law says that its velocity is equal to the square root of 
the product of the depth times the acceleration due to gravity. In 
the deep waters of the Pacific these waves reach a speed of 500 miles 
per hour.   Tsunami are so shallow in comparison with their length 
that in the open ocean they are hardly detectable. Their amplitude 
sometimes is as little as two feet from trough to crest. Usually it 
is only when they approach shallow water on the shore that they build 
up to their terrifying heights. On the fateful day in 1896 when the 
great waves approached Japan, fishermen at sea noticed no unusual swells. 
Not until they sailed home at the end of the day, through a sea 
strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses, were they aware of what 
had happened. The seemingly quiet ocean had crashed a wall of water 
from 10 to 100 feet high upon beaches crowded with bathers, drowning 
thousands of them and flattening villages along the shore.   The 
giant waves are more dangerous on flat shores than on steep ones. They 
usually range from 20 to 60 feet in height, but when they pour into 
a ~V-shaped inlet or harbor they may rise to mountainous proportions.

Generally the first salvo of a tsunami is a rather sharp swell, 
not different enough from an ordinary wave to alarm casual observers. 
This is followed by a tremendous suck of water away from the shore 
as the first great trough arrives. Reefs are left high and dry, and 
the beaches are covered with stranded fish. At Hilo large numbers 
of people ran out to inspect the amazing spectacle of the denuded beach. 
Many of them paid for their curiosity with their lives, for some 
minutes later the first giant wave roared over the shore. After an earthquake 
in Japan in 1793 people on the coast at Tugaru were so terrified 
by the extraordinary ebbing of the sea that they scurried to higher 
ground. When a second quake came, they dashed back to the beach, 
fearing that they might be buried under landslides. Just as they reached 
the shore, the first huge wave crashed upon them.   A tsunami 
is not a single wave but a series. The waves are separated by intervals 
of 15 minutes to an hour or more (because of their great length), 
and this has often lulled people into thinking after the first great 
wave has crashed that it is all over. The waves may keep coming for many 
hours. Usually the third to the eighth waves in the series are the 
biggest.   Among the observers of the 1946 tsunami at Hilo was 
Francis P& Shepard of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
one of the world's foremost marine geologists. He was able to make 
a detailed inspection of the waves. Their onrush and retreat, he reported, 
was accompanied by a great hissing, roaring and rattling. The 
third and fourth waves seemed to be the highest. On some of the islands' 
beaches the waves came in gently; they were steepest on the 
shores facing the direction of the seaquake from which the waves had come. 
In Hilo Bay they were from 21 to 26 feet high. The highest waves, 
55 feet, occurred at Pololu Valley.   Scientists and fishermen 
have occasionally seen strange by-products of the phenomenon. During 
a 1933 tsunami in Japan the sea glowed brilliantly at night. The 
luminosity of the water is now believed to have been caused by the 
stimulation of vast numbers of the luminescent organism <Noctiluca miliaris> 
by the turbulence of the sea. Japanese fishermen have sometimes 
observed that sardines hauled up in their nets during a tsunami have 
enormously swollen stomachs; the fish have swallowed vast numbers 
of bottom-living diatoms, raised to the surface by the disturbance. The 
waves of a 1923 tsunami in Sagami Bay brought to the surface and 
battered to death huge numbers of fishes that normally live at a depth 
of 3,000 feet. Gratified fishermen hauled them in by the thousands.

The tsunami-warning system developed since the 1946 disaster in 
Hawaii relies mainly on a simple and ingenious instrument devised 
by Commander C& K& Green of the Coast and Geodetic Survey staff. 
It consists of a series of pipes and a pressure-measuring chamber 
which record the rise and fall of the water surface. Ordinary water 
tides are disregarded. But when waves with a period of between 10 and 
40 minutes begin to roll over the ocean, they set in motion a corresponding 
oscillation in a column of mercury which closes an electric circuit. 
This in turn sets off an alarm, notifying the observers at the 
station that a tsunami is in progress. Such equipment has been installed 
at Hilo, Midway, Attu and Dutch Harbor. The moment the alarm 
goes off, information is immediately forwarded to Honolulu, which 
is the center of the warning system.   This center also receives 
prompt reports on earthquakes from four Coast Survey stations in the 
Pacific which are equipped with seismographs. Its staff makes a preliminary 
determination of the epicenter of the quake and alerts tide 
stations near the epicenter for a tsunami. By means of charts showing 
wave-travel times and depths in the ocean at various locations, it is 
possible to estimate the rate of approach and probable time of arrival 
at Hawaii of a tsunami getting under way at any spot in the Pacific. 
The civil and military authorities are then advised of the danger, 
and they issue warnings and take all necessary protective steps. All 
of these activities are geared to a top-priority communication system, 
and practice tests have been held to assure that everything will work 
smoothly.   Since the 1946 disaster there have been 15 tsunami 
in the Pacific, but only one was of any consequence. On November 4, 
1952, an earthquake occurred under the sea off the Kamchatka Peninsula. 
At 17:07 that afternoon (Greenwich time) the shock was recorded 
by the seismograph alarm in Honolulu. The warning system immediately 
went into action. Within about an hour with the help of reports 
from seismic stations in Alaska, Arizona and California, the quake's 
epicenter was placed at 51 degrees North latitude and 158 degrees 
East longitude. While accounts of the progress of the tsunami came 
in from various points in the Pacific (Midway reported it was covered 
with nine feet of water), the Hawaiian station made its calculations 
and notified the military services and the police that the first big 
wave would arrive at Honolulu at 23:30 Greenwich time.   It 
turned out that the waves were not so high as in 1946. They hurled a 
cement barge against a freighter in Honolulu Harbor, knocked down telephone 
lines, marooned automobiles, flooded lawns, killed six cows. 
But not a single human life was lost, and property damage in the Hawaiian 
Islands did not exceed $800,000. There is little doubt that the 
warning system saved lives and reduced the damage.   But it is 
plain that a warning system, however efficient, is not enough. In the 
vulnerable areas of the Pacific there should be restrictions against 
building homes on exposed coasts, or at least a requirement that they 
be either raised off the ground or anchored strongly against waves. 
##

The key to the world of geology is change; nothing remains the 
same. Life has evolved from simple combinations of molecules in the 
sea to complex combinations in man. The land, too, is changing, and 
earthquakes are daily reminders of this. Earthquakes result when movements 
in the earth twist rocks until they break. Sometimes this is accompanied 
by visible shifts of the ground surface; often the shifts 
cannot be seen, but they are there; and everywhere can be found scars 
of earlier breaks once deeply buried. Today's earthquakes are most 
numerous in belts where the earth's restlessness is presently concentrated, 
but scars of the past show that there is no part of the earth 
that has not had them.   The effects of earthquakes on civilization 
have been widely publicized, even overemphasized. The role of 
an earthquake in starting the destruction of whole cities is tremendously 
frightening, but fire may actually be the principal agent in a particular 
disaster. Superstition has often blended with fact to color reports.

We have learned from earthquakes much of what we now know 
about the earth's interior, for they send waves through the earth 
which emerge with information about the materials through which they 
have traveled. These waves have shown that 1,800 miles below the surface 
a liquid core begins, and that it, in turn, has a solid inner core.

Earthquakes originate as far as 400 miles below the surface, 
but they do not occur at greater depths. Two unsolved mysteries are 
based on these facts. (1) As far down as 400 miles below the surface 
the material should be hot enough to be plastic and adjust itself to 
twisting forces by sluggish flow rather than by breaking, as rigid surface 
rocks do. (2) If earthquakes do occur at such depths, why not deeper?

Knowledge gained from studying earthquake waves has been 
applied in various fields. In the search for oil and gas, we make 
similar waves under controlled conditions with dynamite and learn from 
them where there are buried rock structures favorable to the accumulation 
of these resources. We have also developed techniques for recognizing 
and locating underground nuclear tests through the waves in the 
ground which they generate.   The following discussion of this subject 
has been adapted from the book {Causes of Catastrophe} by 
L& Don Leet. 

#THE RESTLESS EARTH AND ITS INTERIOR#

<At twelve 
minutes after five on the morning of Wednesday>, April 18, 1906, 
San Francisco was shaken by a severe earthquake. A sharp tremor 
was followed by a jerky roll.

{IN} Ireland's County Limerick, near the River 
Shannon, there is a quiet little suburb by the name of Garryowen, which 
means "Garden of Owen". Undoubtedly none of the residents realize 
the influence their town has had on American military history, 
or the deeds of valor that have been done in its name. The cry "Garryowen"! 
bursting from the lips of a charging cavalry trooper was 
the last sound heard on this earth by untold numbers of Cheyennes, 
Sioux and Apaches, Mexican <banditos> under Pancho Villa, Japanese 
in the South Pacific, and Chinese and North Korean Communists 
in Korea. Garryowen is the battle cry of the 7th U& S& Cavalry 
Regiment, "The Fighting Seventh".   Today a battle 
cry may seem an anachronism, for in the modern Army, <esprit de corps> 
has been sacrificed to organizational charts and tables. But don't 
tell that to a veteran of the Fighting Seventh, especially in a 
saloon on Saturday night.   Of all the thousands of men who have 
served in the 7th Cav, perhaps no one knows its spirit better than 
Lieutenant Colonel Melbourne C& Chandler. Wiry and burr-headed, 
with steel blue eyes and a chest splattered with medals, Chandler 
is the epitome of the old-time trooper. The truth is, however, that 
when Mel Chandler first reported to the regiment the only steed he 
had ever ridden 
was a swivel chair and the only weapon he had ever wielded 
was a pencil.   Chandler had been commissioned in the Medical 
Service Corps and was serving as a personnel officer for the Kansas 
City Medical Depot when he decided that if he was going to make 
the Army his career, he wanted to be in the fighting part of it. Though 
he knew no more about military science and tactics than any other 
desk officer, he managed to get transferred to the combat forces. The 
next thing he knew he was reporting for duty as commanding officer 
of Troop ~H, 7th Cavalry, in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan.

Outside of combat, he couldn't have landed in a tougher 
spot. First of all, no unit likes to have a new ~CO brought in from 
the outside, especially when he's an armchair trooper. Second, 
if there is ever a perfect time to pull the rug out from under him, it's 
on maneuvers. In combat, helping your ~CO make a fool of himself 
might mean getting yourself killed. But in maneuvers, with the top 
brass watching him all the time, it's easy.   Chandler understood 
this and expected the worst. But his first few days with Troop 
~H were full of surprises, beginning with First Sergeant Robert 
Early. Chandler had expected a tough old trooper with a gravel voice. 
Instead Sergeant Early was quiet, sharp and confident. He had 
enlisted in the Army straight out of high school and had immediately 
set about learning his new trade. There was no weapon Early could not 
take apart and reassemble blind-folded. He could lead a patrol and 
he knew his paper work. Further, he had taken full advantage of the Army's 
correspondence courses. He not only knew soldiering, but mathematics, 
history and literature as well.   But for all his erudite 
confidence, Sergeant Early was right out of the Garryowen mold. 
He was filled with the spirit of the Fighting Seventh. That saved 
Mel Chandler. Sergeant Early let the new ~CO know just how lucky 
he was to be in the best troop in the best regiment in the United 
States Army. He fed the captain bits of history about the troops and 
the regiment. For example, it was a battalion of the 7th Cavalry 
under Colonel George Armstrong Custer that had been wiped out at the 
Battle of The Little Big Horn.   It didn't take Captain 
Chandler long to realize that he had to carry a heavy load of tradition 
on his shoulders as commander of Troop ~H. But what made the 
load lighter was the realization that every officer, non-com and trooper 
was ready and willing to help him carry it, for the good of the troop 
and the regiment.   Maneuvers over, the 7th returned to garrison 
duty in Tokyo, Captain Chandler still with them. It was the 
7th Cavalry whose troopers were charged with guarding the Imperial 
Palace of the Emperor. But still Mel Chandler was not completely 
convinced that men would really die for a four-syllable word, "Garryowen". 
The final proof was a small incident.   It happened 
at the St& Patrick's Day party, a big affair for a regiment which 
had gone into battle for over three-quarters of a century to the strains 
of an Irish march. In the middle of the party Chandler looked 
up to see four smiling faces bearing down upon him, each beaming above 
the biggest, greenest shamrock he had ever seen. The faces belonged 
to Lieutenant Marvin Goulding, his wife and their two children. And 
when the singing began, it was the Gouldings who sang the old Irish 
songs the best.   Though there was an occasional good-natured 
chuckle about Marvin Goulding, the Jewish officer from Chicago, 
singing tearfully about the ould sod, no one really thought it was strange. 
For Marvin Goulding, like Giovanni Martini, the bugler boy 
who carried Custer's last message, or Margarito Lopez, the one-man 
Army on Leyte, was a Garryowen, through and through. It was no 
coincidence 
that Goulding was one of the most beloved platoon leaders 
in the regiment.   And so Mel Chandler got the spirit of Garryowen. 
He set out to keep Troop ~H the best troop in the best regiment. 
One of his innovations was to see to it that every man- cook 
and clerk as well as rifleman- qualified with every weapon in the 
troop. Even the mess sergeant, Bill Brown, a dapper, cocky transfer 
from an airborne division, went out on the range.   The troop received 
a new leader, Lieutenant Robert M& Carroll, fresh out of 
~ROTC and bucking for Regular Army status. Carroll was sharp 
and military, but he was up against tough competition for that ~RA 
berth, and he wanted to play it cool. So Mel Chandler set out to 
sell him on the spirit of Garryowen, just as he himself had been sold 
a short time before.   When the Korean war began, on June 25, 
1950, the anniversary of the day Custer had gone down fighting at the 
Little Big Horn and the day the regiment had assaulted the beachhead 
of Leyte during World War /2,, the 7th Cavalry was not in the 
best fighting condition. Its entire complement of non-commissioned 
officers on the platoon level had departed as cadre for another unit, 
and its vehicles were still those used in the drive across Luzon in World 
War /2,.   Just a month after the Korean War broke out, 
the 7th Cavalry was moving into the lines, ready for combat. From 
then on the Fighting Seventh was in the thick of the bitterest fighting 
in Korea.   One night on the Naktong River, Mel Chandler 
called on that fabled <esprit de corps>. The regiment was dug in 
on the east side of the river and the North Koreans were steadily building 
up a concentration of crack troops on the other side. The troopers 
knew an attack was coming, but they didn't know when, and they 
didn't know where. At 6 o'clock on the morning of August 12, they 
were in doubt no longer. Then it came, against Troop ~H.

The enemy had filtered across the river during the night and a full 
force of 1000 men, armed with Russian machine guns, attacked the position 
held by Chandler's men. They came in waves. First came the 
cannon fodder, white-clad civilians being driven into death as a massive 
human battering ram. They were followed by crack North Korean troops, 
who mounted one charge after another. They overran the 7th Cav's 
forward machine-gun positions through sheer weight of numbers, over 
piles of their own dead.   Another force flanked the company 
and took up a position on a hill to the rear. Captain Chandler saw 
that it was building up strength. He assembled a group of 25 men, composed 
of wounded troopers awaiting evacuation, the company clerk, supply 
men, cooks and drivers, and led them to the hill. One of the more 
seriously wounded was Lieutenant Carroll, the young officer bucking 
for the Regular Army. Chandler left Carroll at the bottom of the hill 
to direct any reinforcements he could find to the fight.   Then 
Mel Chandler started up the hill. He took one step, two, broke 
into a trot and then into a run. The first thing he knew the words "Garryowen"! 
burst from his throat. His followers shouted the old 
battle cry after him and charged the hill, firing as they ran.

The Koreans fell back, but regrouped at the top of the hill and pinned 
down the cavalrymen with a screen of fire. Chandler, looking to 
right and left to see how his men were faring, suddenly saw another figure 
bounding up the hill, hurling grenades and hollering the battle cry 
as he ran. It was Bob Carroll, who had suddenly found himself imbued 
with the spirit of Garryowen. He had formed his own task force 
of three stragglers and led them up the hill in a Fighting Seventh charge. 
Because of this diversionary attack the main group that had been 
pinned down on the hill was able to surge forward again. But an enemy 
grenade hit Carroll in the head and detonated simultaneously. He 
went down like a wet rag and the attackers hit the dirt in the face 
of 
the withering enemy fire.   Enemy reinforcements came pouring down, 
seeking a soft spot. They found it at the junction between Troops 
~H and ~G, and prepared to counterattack. Marvin Goulding saw 
what was happening. He turned to his platoon. "Okay, men", he 
said. "Follow me". Goulding leaped to his feet and started forward, 
"Garryowen"! on his lips, his men following. But the bullets 
whacked home before he finished his battle cry and Marvin Goulding 
fell dead. For an instant his men hesitated, unable to believe that 
their lieutenant, 
the most popular officer in the regiment, was dead. 
Then they let out a bellow of anguish and rage and, cursing, screaming 
and hollering "Garryowen"! they charged into the enemy like 
wild men.   That finished the job that Captain Chandler and Lieutenant 
Carroll had begun. Goulding's platoon pushed back the enemy 
soldiers and broke up the timing of the entire enemy attack. Reinforcements 
came up quickly to take advantage of the opening made by Goulding's 
platoon. The North Koreans threw away their guns and fled 
across the rice paddies. Artillery and air strikes were called in 
to kill them by the hundreds.   Though Bob Carroll seemed to have 
had his head practically blown off by the exploding grenade, he lived. 
Today he is a major- in the Regular Army.   So filled 
was Mel Chandler with the spirit of Garryowen that after Korea was 
over, he took on the job of writing the complete history of the regiment. 
After years of digging, nights and weekends, he put together the 
big, profusely illustrated book, <Of Garryowen and Glory>, which 
is probably the most complete history of any military unit. ##

The 
battle of the Naktong River is just one example of how the battle 
cry and the spirit of The Fighting Seventh have paid off. For nearly 
a century the cry has never failed to rally the fighting men of the 
regiment.   Take the case of Major Marcus A& Reno, who survived 
the Battle of The Little Big Horn in 1876. From the enlisted 
men he pistol-whipped to the subordinate officer whose wife he tried 
to rape, a lot of men had plenty of reason heartily to dislike Marcus 
Reno. Many of his fellow officers refused to speak to him. But 
when a board of inquiry was called to look into the charges of cowardice 
made against him, the men who had seen Reno leave the battlefield 
and the officer who had heard Reno suggest that the wounded be left 
to be tortured by the Sioux, refused to say a harsh word against him. 
He was a member of The Fighting Seventh.   Although it was 
at 
the Battle of The Little Horn, about which more words have been 
written than any other battle in American history, that the 7th Cavalry 
first made its mark in history, the regiment was ten years old by 
then. Brevet Major General George Armstrong Custer was the regiment's 
first permanent commander and, like such generals as George 
S& Patton and Terry de la Mesa Allen in their rise to military 
prominence, 
Custer was a believer in blood and guts warfare.   During 
the Civil War, Custer, who achieved a brilliant record, was 
made 
brigadier general at the age of 23.   He finished the war as 
a major general, commanding a full division, and at 25 was the youngest 
major general in the history of the U& S& Army. 
I do not mean to suggest that these assumptions are self-evident, in 
the sense that everyone agrees with them. If they were, Walter Lippmann 
would be writing the same columns as George Sokolsky, and Herblock 
would have nothing to draw cartoons about. I do mean, however, that 
<I> take them for granted, and that everything I shall be saying 
would appear quite idiotic against any contrary assumptions. _ASSUMPTION 
1._ The ultimate objective of American policy is to help establish 
a world in which there is the largest possible measure of freedom 
and justice and peace and material prosperity; and in particular- 
since this is our special responsibility- that these conditions 
be enjoyed by the people of the United States. I speak of "the largest 
possible measure" because any person who supposes that these 
conditions can be universally and perfectly achieved- ever- reckons 
without the inherent imperfectability of himself and his fellow human 
beings, and is therefore a dangerous man to have around. _ASSUMPTION 
2._ These conditions are unobtainable- are not even approachable 
in the qualified sense I have indicated- without the prior defeat 
of world Communism. This is true for two reasons: because Communism 
is both doctrinally, and in practice, antithetical to these conditions; 
and because Communists have the will and, as long as Soviet 
power remains intact, the capacity to prevent their realization. Moreover, 
as Communist power increases, the enjoyment of these conditions 
throughout the world diminishes <pro rata> and the possibility of 
their restoration becomes increasingly remote. _ASSUMPTION 3._ It 
follows that victory over Communism is the dominant, proximate goal 
of American policy. Proximate in the sense that there are more distant, 
more "positive" ends we seek, to which victory over Communism 
is but a means. But dominant in the sense that every other objective, 
no matter how worthy intrinsically, must defer to it. Peace is a worthy 
objective; but if we must choose between peace and keeping the 
Communists out of Berlin, then we must fight. Freedom, in the sense 
of self-determination, is a worthy objective; but if granting self-determination 
to the Algerian rebels entails sweeping that area into 
the Sino-Soviet orbit, then Algerian freedom must be postponed. Justice 
is a worthy objective; but if justice for Bantus entails driving 
the government of the Union of South Africa away from the West, 
then the Bantus must be prepared to carry their identification cards 
yet a while longer. Prosperity is a worthy objective; but if providing 
higher standards of living gets in the way of producing sufficient 
guns to resist Communist aggression, then material sacrifices and 
denials will have to be made. It may be, of course, that such objectives 
can be pursued consisently with a policy designed to overthrow Communism; 
my point is that where conflicts arise they must always be 
resolved in favor of achieving the indispensable condition for a tolerant 
world- the absence of Soviet Communist power. 

#THE USES OF 
POWER#

This much having been said, the question remains whether we 
have the resources for the job we have to do- defeat Communism- 
and, if so, how those resources ought to be used. This brings us squarely 
to the problem of <power,> and the uses a nation makes of power. 
I submit that this is the key problem of international relations, that 
it always has been, that it always will be. And I suggest further 
that the main cause of the trouble we are in has been the failure of 
American policy-makers, ever since we assumed free world leadership 
in 1945, to deal with this problem realistically and seriously. 
In the recent political campaign two charges were leveled affecting 
the question of power, and I think we might begin by trying to put them 
into proper focus. One was demonstrably false; the other, for the 
most part, true.   The first was that America had become- or 
was in danger of becoming- a second-rate military power. I know I 
do not have to dwell here on the absurdity of that contention. You 
may have misgivings about certain aspects of our military establishment- 
I certainly do- but you know any comparison of over-all American 
strength with over-all Soviet strength finds the United States 
not only superior, but so superior both in present weapons and in the 
development of new ones that our advantage promises to be a permanent 
feature of U&S&-Soviet relations for the foreseeable future.

I have often searched for a graphic way of impressing our superiority 
on those Americans who have doubts, and I think Mr& Jameson 
Campaigne has done it well in his new book <American Might and Soviet 
Myth>. Suppose, he says, that the tables were turned, and we 
were in the Soviets' position: "There would be more than 2,000 
modern Soviet fighters, all better than ours, stationed at 250 bases 
in Mexico and the Caribbean. Overwhelming Russian naval power would 
always be within a few hundred miles of our coast. Half of the population 
of the U&S& would be needed to work on arms just to feed 
the people". Add this to the unrest in the countries around us where 
oppressed peoples would be ready to turn on us at the first opportunity. 
Add also a comparatively primitive industrial plant which would 
severely limit our capacity to keep abreast of the Soviets even in the 
missile field which is reputed to be our main strength.   If 
we look at the situation this way, we can get an idea of Khrushchev's 
nightmarish worries- or, at least, of the worries he might have if 
his enemies were disposed to exploit their advantage. 

#U&S& "PRESTIGE"# 

The other charge was that America's political position 
in the world has progressively deteriorated in recent years. The 
contention needs to be formulated with much greater precision than it 
ever was during the campaign, but once that has been done, I fail to 
see how any serious student of world affairs can quarrel with it.

The argument was typically advanced in terms of U&S& "prestige". 
Prestige, however, is only a minor part of the problem; and 
even then, it is a concept that can be highly misleading. Prestige 
is a measure of how other people think of you, well or ill. But contrary 
to what was implied during the campaign, prestige is surely not important 
for its own sake. Only the vain and incurably sentimental among 
us will lose sleep simply because foreign peoples are not as impressed 
by our strength as they ought to be. The thing to lose sleep over 
is what people, having concluded that we are weaker than we are, are 
likely to do about it.   The evidence suggests that foreign peoples 
believe the United States is weaker than the Soviet Union, and 
is bound to fall still further behind in the years ahead. This ignorant 
estimate, I repeat, is not of any interest in itself; but it becomes 
very important if foreign peoples react the way human beings typically 
do- namely, by taking steps to end up on what appears to be 
the winning side. To the extent, then, that declining U&S& prestige 
means that other nations will be tempted to place their bets on 
an ultimate American defeat, and will thus be more vulnerable to Soviet 
intimidation, there is reason for concern.   Still, these guesses 
about the outcome of the struggle cannot be as important as the 
actual power relationship between the Soviet Union and ourselves. Here 
I do not speak of military power where our advantage is obvious and 
overwhelming but of political power- of influence, if you will- 
about which the relevant questions are: Is Soviet influence throughout 
the world greater or less than it was ten years ago? And is Western 
influence greater or less than it used to be? 

#COMMUNIST GAINS# 

In answering these questions, we need to ask not merely whether 
Communist troops have crossed over into territories they did not occupy 
before, and not merely whether disciplined agents of the Cominform 
are in control of governments from which they were formerly excluded: 
the success of Communism's war against the West does not depend 
on such spectacular and definitive conquests. Success may mean merely 
the displacement of Western influence.   Communist political 
warfare, we must remember, is waged insidiously and in deliberate stages. 
Fearful of inviting a military showdown with the West which they 
could not win, the Communists seek to undermine Western power where 
the nuclear might of the West is irrelevant- in backwoods guerrilla 
skirmishes, 
in mob uprisings in the streets, in parliaments, in clandestine 
meetings of undercover conspirators, at the United Nations, 
on the propaganda front, at diplomatic conferences- preferably at 
the highest level.   The Soviets understand, moreover, that the 
first step in turning a country toward Communism is to turn it against 
the West. Thus, typically, the first stage of a Communist takeover 
is to "neutralize" a country. The second stage is to retain the 
nominal classification of "neutralist", while in fact turning the 
country into an active advocate and adherent of Soviet policy. And 
this may be as far as the process will go. The Kremlin's goal is 
the isolation and capture, not of Ghana, but of the United States- 
and this purpose may be served very well by countries that masquerade 
under a "neutralist" mask, yet in fact are dependable auxiliaries 
of the Soviet Foreign Office.   To recite the particulars of 
recent Soviet successes is hardly reassuring.   Six years ago 
French Indochina, though in troubie, was in the Western camp. Today 
Northern Vietnam is overtly Communist; Laos is teetering between 
Communism and pro-Communist neutralism; Cambodia is, for all 
practical purposes, neutralist.   Indonesia, in the early days of 
the Republic, leaned toward the West. Today Sukarno's government 
is heavily besieged by avowed Communists, and for all of its "neutralist" 
pretensions, it is a firm ally of Soviet policy.   Ceylon 
has moved from a pro-Western orientation to a neutralism openly 
hostile to the West.   In the Middle East, Iraq, Syria and 
Egypt were, a short while ago, in the Western camp. Today the Nasser 
and Kassem governments are adamantly hostile to the West, are dependent 
for their military power on Soviet equipment and personnel; 
in almost every particular follow the Kremlin's foreign policy line.

A short time ago all Africa was a Western preserve. Never 
mind whether the Kikiyus and the Bantus enjoyed Wilsonian self-determination: 
the point is that in the struggle for the world that 
vast land mass was under the domination and influence of the West. Today, 
Africa is swerving violently away from the West and plunging, 
it would seem, into the Soviet orbit.   Latin America was once 
an area as "safe" for the West as Nebraska was for Nixon. Today 
it is up for grabs. One Latin American country, Cuba, has become 
a Soviet bridgehead ninety miles off our coast. In some countries 
the trend has gone further than others: Mexico, Panama, and Venezuela 
are displaying open sympathy for Castroism, and there is no country- 
save the Dominican Republic whose funeral services we recently 
arranged- where Castroism and anti-Americanism does not prevent 
the government from unqualifiedly espousing the American cause.

Only in Europe have our lines remained firm- and there only on the 
surface. The strains of neutralism are running strong, notably in 
England, and even in Germany. 

#OPPORTUNITIES MISSED#

What have 
we to show by way of counter-successes? We have had opportunities- 
clear invitations to plant our influence on the other side of the Iron 
Curtain. There was the Hungarian Revolution which we praised 
and mourned, but did nothing about. There was the Polish Revolution 
which we misunderstood and then helped guide along a course favorable 
to Soviet interests. There was the revolution in Tibet which we pretended 
did not exist. Only in one instance have we moved purposively 
and effectively to dislodge existing Communist power: in Guatemala. 
And contrary to what has been said recently, we did not wait for "outside 
pressures" and "world opinion" to bring down that Communist 
government; we moved decisively to effect an anti-Communist 
<coup 
d'etat>. We served our national interests, and by so doing we 
saved the Guatemalan people the ultimate in human misery.

THE FIRST RATTLE of the machine guns, at 7:10 in the evening, 
roused around me the varied voices and faces of fear.   "Sounds 
exactly like last time". The young man spoke steadily enough, 
but all at once he looked grotesquely unshaven. The middle-aged man 
said over and over, "Why did I come here, why did I come 
here". 
Then he was sick. Amid the crackle of small arms and automatic weapons, 
I heard the thumping of mortars. Then the lights went out.

This was my 
second day in Vientiane, the administrative capital of 
Laos, and my thoughts were none too brave. Where was my flashlight? 
Where should I go? To my room? Better stay in the hotel lobby, 
where the walls looked good and thick.   Chinese and Indian 
merchants across the street were slamming their steel shutters. Hotel 
attendants pulled parked bicycles into the lobby. A woman with a small 
boy slipped in between them. "Please", she said, "please". 
She held out her hand to show that she had money.   The American 
newspaperman worried about getting to the cable office. But what 
was the story? Had the Communist-led Pathet Lao finally come this 
far? Or was it another revolt inside Vientiane?   "Let's 
play hero", I said. "Let's go to the roof and see". 

#GUNFIRE 
SAVES THE MOON#

By 7:50 the answer was plain. There had 
been an eclipse of the moon. A traditional Lao explanation is that 
the moon was being swallowed by a toad, and the remedy was to make all 
possible noise, ideally with firearms.   The din was successful, 
too, for just before the moon disappeared, the frightened toad had 
begun 
to spit it out again, which meant good luck all around.   How 
quaint it all seemed the next day. A restaurant posted a reminder to 
patrons "who became excited and left without paying their checks". 
But everyone I met had sought cover first and asked questions later. 
And no wonder, for Vientiane, the old City of Sandalwood, had 
become the City of Bullet Holes.   I saw holes in planes at the 
airport and in cars in the streets. Along the main thoroughfares hardly 
a house had not been peppered. In place of the police headquarters 
was a new square filled with rubble. Mortars had demolished the 
defense ministry and set fire to the American Embassy next door. What 
had been the ambassador's suite was now jagged walls of blackened 
brick.   This damage had been done in the battle of Vientiane, 
fought less than three months earlier when four successive governments 
had ruled here in three days (December 9-11, 1960). And now, in March, 
all Laos suffered a state of siege. The Pathet Lao forces held 
two northern provinces and openly took the offensive in three more. 
Throughout the land their hit-and-run terrorists spread fear of ambush 
and death.   "And it's all the more tragic because it's 
so little deserved", said Mr& J& J& A& Frans, a Belgian 
official of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural 
Organization. We talked after I hailed his Jeep marked with 
the U& N& flag.   Practically all the people of Laos, he 
explained- about two million of them- are rice farmers, and the means 
and motives of modern war are as strange to them as clocks and steel 
plows. They look after their fields and children and water buffaloes 
in ten or eleven thousand villages, with an average of 200 souls. 
Nobody can tell more closely how many villages there are. They spread 
over an area no larger than Oregon; yet they include peoples as different 
from one another as Oregonians are from Patagonians. 

#LIFE 
MUST BE KEPT IN HARMONY#

"What matters here is family loyalty; 
faith in the Buddha and staying at peace with the <phis>, the spirits; 
and to live in harmony with nature".   Harmony in Laos? 
"Precisely", said Mr& Frans. He spoke of the season of 
dryness and dust, brought by the monsoon from the northeast, in harmony 
with the season of rain and mud, brought by the monsoon from the southwest. 
The slim pirogues in harmony with the majestically meandering 
Mekong River. Shy, slender-waisted girls at the loom in harmony with 
the frangipani by the wayside. Even life in harmony with death. For 
so long as death was not violent, it was natural and to be welcomed, 
making a funeral a feast.   To many a Frenchman- they came 
95 years ago, colonized, and stayed until Laos became independent in 
1953- the land had been even more delightfully tranquil than Tahiti. 
Yet Laos was now one of the most explosive headaches of statesmen 
around the globe. The Pathet Lao, stiffened by Communist Veterans 
from neighboring North Viet Nam, were supplied by Soviet aircraft. 
The Royal Lao Army, on the other hand, was paid and equipped with 
American funds. In six years, U& S& aid had amounted to more 
than $1.60 for each American- a total of three hundred million dollars.

We were there at a moment when the situation in Laos threatened 
to ignite another war among the world's giants. Even if it 
did not, how would this little world of gentle people cope with its 
new reality of grenades and submachine guns?   To find out, we 
traveled throughout that part of Laos still nominally controlled, in 
the daytime at least, by the Royal Lao Army: from Attopeu, the 
City 
of Buffalo Dung in the southeast, to Muong Sing, the City of 
Lions in the northwest, close to Communist China (map, page 250). 
We rode over roads so rough that our Jeep came to rest atop the soil 
between ruts, all four wheels spinning uselessly. We flew in rickety 
planes so overloaded that we wondered why they didn't crash. In the 
end we ran into Communist artillery fire.   "We" were Bill 
Garrett of the NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC Illustrations Staff, whose 
three cameras and eight lenses made him look as formidable as any 
fighting man we met; Boun My, our interpreter; and myself.

Boun My- the name means one who has a <boun>, a celebration, and 
is therefore lucky- was born in Savannakhet, the Border of Paradise. 
He had attended three universities in the United States. But 
he had never seen the mountainous half of his native land north of Vientiane, 
including the royal capital, Luang Prabang. Before the airplanes 
came, he said, travel in Laos was just about impossible. 

#PRIME 
MINISTER MOVES FAST#

Alas, so it almost proved for us, too. To 
go outside the few cities required permits. and getting them seemed 
a life's work. Nobody wanted Americans to be hurt or captured, and 
few soldiers could be spared as escorts.   We were told that to 
the Pathet Lao, a kidnaped American was worth at least $750, a fortune 
in Laos. Everyone had heard of the American contractor who had 
spurned an escort. Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching 
him barefoot from village to village, as evidence of evil American 
intervention.   Although we enjoyed our rounds of the government 
offices in Vientiane, with officials offering tea and pleasing conversation 
in French, we were getting nowhere. We had nearly decided 
that all the tales of Lao lethargy must be true, when we were invited 
to take a trip with the Prime Minister. Could we be ready in 15 
minutes? His Highness had decided only two hours ago to go out of 
town, and he was eager to be off. 

#PRINCE WEARS TEN-GALLON HAT#

And 
so, after a flight southeast to Savannakhet, we found ourselves bouncing 
along in a Jeep right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun 
Oum of Champassak, a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket 
and a ten-gallon hat from Texas. From his shoulder bag peeked the 
seven-inch barrel of a Luger.   The temperature rose to 105`. 
With our company of soldiers, we made one long column of reddish dust.

In Keng Kok, the City of Silkworms, the Prime Minister 
bought fried chickens and fried cicadas, and two notebooks for me. 
Then we drove on, until there was no more road and we traversed dry rice 
fields, bouncing across their squat earth walls.   It was a 
spleen-crushing day. An hour of bouncing, a brief stop in a village to 
inspect a new school or dispensary. More bouncing, another stop, a 
new house for teachers, a new well. Then off again, rushing to keep up. 
We were miserable.   But our two Jeep mates- Keo Viphakone 
from Luang Prabang and John Cool from Beaver, Pennsylvania- 
were beaming under their coatings of dust. Together they had probably 
done more than any other men to help push Laos toward the 20th century- 
constructively. Mr& Keo, once a diplomat in Paris and Washington, 
was Commissioner of Rural Affairs. John, an engineer and anthropologist 
with a doctorate from the London School of Economics, 
headed the rural development division of ~USOM, the United States 
Operations Mission administering U&S& aid.   "What 
you see are self-help projects", John said. "We ask the people 
what they want, and they supply the labor. We send shovels, cement, 
nails, 
and corrugated iron for roofs. That way they have an infirmary 
for $400. We have 2,500 such projects, and they add up to a lot more 
than just roads and wells and schools. Ask Mr& Keo". 
Mr& 
Keo agreed. "Our people have been used to accepting things as 
they found them", he said. "Where there was no road, they lived 
without one. Now they learn that men can change their surroundings, 
through their traditional village elders, without violence. That's 
a big step toward a modern state. You might say we are in the nation-building 
business".   In the villages people lined up to give 
us flowers. Then came coconuts, eggs, and rice wine. The Prime Minister 
paid his respects to the Buddhist monks, strode rapidly among the 
houses, joked with the local soldiery, and made a speech. The soldiers 
are fighting and the Americans are helping, he said, but in the 
fight against the Pathet Lao the key factor is the villager himself.

Then we were off again. We did it for three days.   But 
our stumping tour of the south wasn't all misery. Crossing the 4,000-foot 
width of the Mekong at Champassak, on a raft with an outboard 
motor, we took off our dusty shirts and enjoyed a veritable ocean 
breeze. Then we hung overboard in the water.   Briefly we rolled 
over a paved road up to Pak Song, on the cool Bolovens Plateau. 
The Prince visited the hospital of Operation Brotherhood, supported 
by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines, and fed rice 
to two pet elephants he kept at his residence at Pak Song. 

#STRINGS 
KEEP SOULS IN PLACE#

In the village of Soukhouma, which means 
"Peaceful", we had a <baci>. This is the most endearing of Lao 
ceremonies. It takes place in the household, a rite of well-wishing 
for myriad occasions- for the traveler, a wedding, a newborn child, 
the sick, the New Year, for any good purpose.   The preparations 
were elaborate: flowers, candles, incense sticks, rice wine, dozens 
of delicacies, and pieces of white cotton string. The strings were 
draped around flowers in tall silver bowls (page 261).   The 
candles were lighted, and we sat on split-bamboo mats among the village 
notables. I was careful to keep my feet, the seat of the least worthy 
spirits, from pointing at anyone's head, where the worthiest spirits 
reside. Now a distinguished old man called on nine divinities to 
come and join us.   Next he addressed himself to our souls. A 
man has 32 souls, one for each part of the body. Those souls like to 
wander off, and must be called back.   With the divinities present 
and our souls in place, we were wished health, happiness, and power. 
Then, one after another, the villagers tied the waiting cotton strings 
around our wrists. These were to be kept on, to hold in the 32 souls.

As we stepped out into the sunlight, a man came up to John 
Cool and silently showed him his hand. It had a festering hole as 
big as a silver dollar. We could see maggots moving.   John said: 
"I have some antiseptic salve with me, but it's too late for 
that".

My interviews with teen-agers confirmed this portrait of the weakening 
of religious and ethnic bonds. Jewish identity was often confused 
with social and economic strivings. "Being Jewish gives you tremendous 
drive", a boy remarked. "It means that you have to get 
ahead". When I pressed for a purely religious definition, I encountered 
the familiar blend of liberal piety, interfaith good will, and 
a small residue of ethnic loyalty.   "I like the tradition", 
a girl said. "I like to follow the holidays when they come along. 
But you don't have to worship in the traditional way. You can communicate 
in your own way. As I see it, there's no real difference between 
being Jewish, Catholic, or Protestant".   Another teen-ager 
remarked: "Most Jews don't believe in God, but they believe 
in people- in helping people". Still another boy asserted: 
"To be a good Jew is to do no wrong; it's to be a good person". 
When asked how this was different from being a good Protestant, 
the boy answered, "It's the same thing".   This accords 
with the study by Maier and Spinrad. They discovered that, although 
42 per cent of a sample of Catholic students and 15 per cent of the 
Protestants believed it important to live in accordance with the teachings 
of their religion, only 8 per cent of the Jewish students had this 
conviction. The most important aims of the Jewish students were as 
follows: to make the world a better place to live in- 30 per cent; 
to get happiness for yourself- 28 per cent; and financial independence- 
21 per cent.   Nevertheless, most of the teen-agers 
I interviewed believed in maintaining their Jewish identity and even 
envisioned joining a synagogue or temple. However, they were hostile 
to Jewish Orthodoxy, professing to believe in Judaism "but in a 
moderate way". One boy said querulously about Orthodox Jews: "It's 
the twentieth century, and they don't have to wear beards".

The reason offered for clinging to the ancestral faith lacked 
force and authority even in the teen-agers' minds. "We were brought 
up that way" was one statement which won general assent. "I 
want to show respect for my parents' religion" was the way in which 
a boy justified his inhabiting a halfway house of Judaism. Still 
another suggested that he would join a temple "for social reasons, 
since I'll be living in a suburb".   Intermarriage, which 
is generally regarded as a threat to Jewish survival, was regarded not 
with horror or apprehension but with a kind of mild, clinical disapproval. 
Most of the teen-agers I interviewed rejected it on pragmatic 
grounds. "When you marry, you want to have things in common", a 
girl said, "and it's hard when you don't marry someone with your 
own background".   A fourteen-year-old girl from the Middle 
West observed wryly that, in her community, religion inconveniently interfered 
with religious activities- at least with the peripheral activities 
that many middle class Jews now regard as religious. It appears 
that an Orthodox girl in the community disrupted plans for an outing 
sponsored by one of the Jewish service groups because she would 
not travel on Saturday and, in addition, required kosher food. Another 
girl from a relatively large midwestern city described herself as "the 
only Orthodox girl in town". This is, no doubt, inaccurate, 
but it does convey how isolated she feels among the vast army of the 
nonobservant. 

#THE OLDER TEENS#

One of the significant things about 
Jewish culture in the older teen years is that it is largely college-oriented. 
Sixty-five per cent of the Jewish teen-agers of college 
age attend institutions of higher learning. This is substantially higher 
than the figures for the American population at large- 45.6 per 
cent for males and 29.2 per cent for females. This may help explain 
a phenomenon described by a small-town Jewish boy. In their first two 
years in high school, Jewish boys in this town make strenuous exertions 
to win positions on the school teams. However, in their junior and 
senior years, they generally forego their athletic pursuits, presumably 
in the interest of better academic achievement. It is significant, 
too, that the older teen-agers I interviewed believed, unlike the 
younger ones, that Jewish students tend to do better academically than 
their gentile counterparts.   The percentage of Jewish girls 
who attend college is almost as high as that of boys. The motivations 
for both sexes, to be sure, are different. The vocational motive is 
the dominant one for boys, while Jewish girls attend college for social 
reasons and to become culturally developed. One of the significant 
developments in American-Jewish life is that the cultural consumers 
are largely the women. It is they who read- and make- Jewish 
best-sellers and then persuade their husbands to read them.   In 
upper teen Jewish life, the non-college group tends to have a sense 
of marginality. "People automatically assume that I'm in college", 
a nineteen-year-old machinist observed irritably. However, among 
the girls, there are some morale-enhancing compensations for not going 
to college. The Jewish working girl almost invariably works in an 
office- in contradistinction to gentile factory workers- and, buttressed 
by a respectable income, she is likely to dress better and live 
more expansively than the college student. She is even prone to regard 
the college girl as immature. 

#THE LOWER-MIDDLE CLASS COLLEGE STUDENT# 

One of the reasons for the high percentage of Jewish teen-agers 
in college is that a great many urban Jews are enabled to attend 
local colleges at modest cost. This is particularly true in large centers 
of Jewish population like New York, Chicago, and Philadelphia.

What is noteworthy about this large group of teen-agers is 
that, although their attitudes hardly differentiate them from their 
gentile counterparts, 
they actually lead their lives in a vast self-enclosed 
Jewish cosmos with relatively little contact with the non-Jewish 
world.   Perhaps the Jewish students at Brooklyn College- 
constituting 85 per cent of those who attend the day session- can 
serve as a paradigm of the urban, lower-middle class Jewish student.

There is, to begin, an important sex difference. Typically, in 
a lower-middle class Jewish family, a son will be sent to an out-of-town 
school, if financial resources warrant it, while the daughter will 
attend the local college. There are two reasons for this. First, 
the girl's education has a lower priority than the son's. Second, 
the attitude in Jewish families is far more protective toward the daughter 
than toward the son. Most Jewish mothers are determined to exercise 
vigilance over the social and sexual lives of their daughters by 
keeping them home. The consequence of this is that the girls at Brooklyn 
College outnumber the boys and do somewhat better academically. 
One can assume that some of the brightest boys are out of town.

Brooklyn College students have an ambivalent attitude toward their 
school. On the one hand, there is a sense of not having moved beyond 
the ambiance of their high school. This is particularly acute for 
those who attended Midwood High School directly across the street 
from Brooklyn College. They have a sense of marginality at being denied 
that special badge of status, the out-of-town school. At the same 
time, there is a good deal of self-congratulation at attending a good 
college- they are even inclined to exaggerate its not inconsiderable 
virtues- and they express pleasure at the cozy in-group feeling 
that the college generates. "It's people of your own kind", a girl 
remarked. "You don't have to watch what you say. Of course, 
I would like to go to an out-of-town school where there are all kinds 
of people, but I would want lots of Jewish kids there".   For 
most Brooklyn College students, college is at once a perpetuation 
of their ethnic attachments and a breaking away from the cage of neighborhood 
and family. @rooklyn College is unequivocally Jewish in 
tone, and efforts to detribalize the college by bringing in unimpeachably 
midwestern types on the faculty have been unavailing. However, a 
growing intellectual sophistication and the new certitudes imparted by 
courses in psychology and anthropology make the students increasingly 
critical of their somewhat provincial and overprotective parents. And 
the rebellion of these third generation Jews is not the traditional 
conflict of culture but, rather, a protest against a culture that they 
view as softly and insidiously enveloping. "As long as I'm home, 
I'll never grow up", a nineteen-year-old boy observed sadly. 
"They don't like it if I do anything away from home. It's so 
much trouble, I don't usually bother".   For girls, the overprotection 
is far more pervasive. Parents will drive on Friday night 
to pick up their daughters after a sorority or House Plan meeting. 
A freshman girl's father not too long ago called a dean at Brooklyn 
College and demanded the "low-down" on a boy who was going out 
with his daughter. The domestic tentacles even extend to the choice 
of a major field. Under pressure from parents, the majority of Brooklyn 
College girls major in education since that co-ordinates best with 
marriage plans- limited graduate study requirement and convenient 
working hours. This means that a great many academically talented girls 
are discouraged from pursuing graduate work of a more demanding nature. 
A kind of double standard exists here for Jewish boys and girls 
as it does in the realm of sex.   The breaking away from the prison 
house of Brooklyn is gradual. First, the student trains on his 
hapless parents the heavy artillery of his newly acquired psychological 
and sociological insights. Then, with the new affluence, there is 
actually a sallying forth into the wide, wide world beyond the precincts 
of New York. It is significant that the Catskills, which used to 
be the summer playground for older teen-agers, a kind of summer suburb 
of New York, no longer attracts them in great numbers- except for 
those who work there as waiters, bus boys, or counselors in the day 
camps. The great world beyond beckons. But it should be pointed out 
that some of the new watering places- Fire Island, Nantucket, Westhampton, 
Long Island, for example- tend to be homogeneously Jewish. 
Although Brooklyn College does not yet have a junior-year-abroad 
program, a good number of students spend summers in Europe. In 
general, however, the timetable of travel lags considerably behind that 
of the student at Harvard or Smith. And acculturation into the world 
at large is likely to occur for the Brooklyn College student after 
college rather than during the four school years.   Brooklyn 
College is Marjorie Morningstar territory, as much as the Bronx or 
Central Park West. There are hordes of nubile young women there 
who, prodded by their impatient mothers, are determined to marry. 
It is interesting that, although the percentage of married students 
is not appreciably higher at Brooklyn than elsewhere- about 30 per 
cent of the women and 25 per cent of the men in the graduating class- 
the anxiety of the unmarried has puffed up the estimate. "Almost 
everybody in the senior class is married", students say dogmatically. 
And the school newspaper sells space to jubilant fraternities, sororities, 
and houses (in the House Plan Association) that have good 
news to impart. These announcements are, in effect, advertisements 
for themselves as thriving marriage marts. There are boxed proclamations 
in the newspaper of watchings, pinnings, ringings, engagements, and 
marriages in a scrupulously graded hierarchy of felicity. "Witt House 
happily announces the engagement of Fran Horowitz to Erwin Schwartz 
of Fife House".   The Brooklyn College student shows 
some striking departures from prevailing collegiate models. The Ivy 
League enjoys no easy dominion here, and the boys are as likely to 
dress in rather foppish Continental fashion, or even in nondescript 
working class manner, as they are in the restrained, button-down Ivy 
way. The girls are prone to dress far more flamboyantly than their counterparts 
out of town, and eye shadow, mascara, and elaborate <bouffant> 
hairdos- despite the admonitions of cautious guidance personnel- 
are not unknown even in early morning classes.   Among the 
boys, there is very little bravado about drinking. Brooklyn College 
is distinctive for not having an official drinking place. The Fort Lauderdale 
encampment for drinking is foreign to most Brooklyn College 
boys. 
This should be used frequently (but shaken before using). For galled 
breasts, the mother should shave into half a cup of fresh unsalted lard 
enough white chalk to make a paste. This could also be used for any 
other skin irritation. Or she might place cornstarch in the oven for 
a short time and then apply this under her breasts.   "Female 
troubles" of various kinds do not seem to have been common on the 
frontier; at least I have only one remedy for anything of this kind 
in my collection, one for hastening delayed menstruation. The sufferer 
drinks tansy tea.   Bruises, burns, cuts, etc&, occurred frequently 
on the frontier, and folk medicine gave the answers to these 
problems too. Bruises and black eyes were relieved by application of 
raw beefsteak. (Doctors now say that it was not the meat but the coolness 
of the applications which relieved the pain.) Salted butter was 
another 
cure for bruises. Many people agreed that burns should be treated 
with bland oily salves or unsalted butter or lard, but one informant 
told me that a burn should be bathed in salt water; the burn oozed 
watery fluid for many days, and finally the healing was completed by 
bathing it with epsom salts. Another swore by vinegar baths for burns, 
and still another recommended salted butter. "Butter salve" or 
"butter ointment" was used for burns, and for bruises as well. This 
was made by putting butter in a pan of water and allowing it to boil; 
when it was cool, the fat was skimmed off and bottled. Cow's 
milk was another cure for burns, and burns covered with gum arabic or 
plain mucilage healed quickly. One man, badly burned about the face and 
eyes by an arc welding torch, was blinded and could not find a doctor 
at the time. A sympathetic friend made poultices of raw potato parings, 
which she said was the best and quickest way to draw out the "heat". 
Later the doctor used mineral oil on the burns. The results 
were good, but which treatment helped is still not known.   To 
stop bleeding, cobwebs were applied to cuts and wounds. One old-timer 
said to sprinkle sugar on a bleeding cut, even when on a knuckle, if it 
was made by a rusty tool; this would stop the flow and also prevent 
infection. My lawyer told me that his mother used a similar remedy 
for cuts and wounds; she sprinkled common sugar directly on the injury 
and then bound it loosely with cotton cloth, over which she poured 
turpentine. He showed me one of his fingers which had been practically 
amputated and which his mother had treated; there is scarcely a scar 
showing. Tobacco was common first aid. A "chaw" of tobacco put 
on an open wound was both antiseptic and healing. Or a thin slice 
of plug tobacco might be laid on the open wound without chewing. One 
old man told me that when he was a boy he was kicked in the head by a 
fractious mule and had his scalp laid back from the entire front of his 
head. His brother ran a mile to get the father; when they reached 
the boy, the father sliced a new plug of tobacco, put the scalp back 
in place, and covered the raw edges with the slices. Then he put a rag 
around the dressing to keep it in place. There was no cleaning or further 
care, but the wound healed in less than two weeks and showed no 
scar. Veronica from the herb garden was also used to stop bleeding, 
and rue was an antiseptic. Until quite recently, "sterile" maggots 
could be bought to apply to a wound; they would feed on its surface, 
leaving it clean so that it could be medically treated.   Tetanus 
could be avoided by pouring warm turpentine over a wound. One family 
bound wounds with bacon or salt pork strips, or, if these were not 
handy, plain lard. Another sprinkled sugar on hot coals and held the 
wounded foot or hand in the smoke. Rabies were cured or prevented 
by "madstones" which the pioneer wore or carried. In 1872 there were 
known to be twenty-two in Norton County, and one had been in the 
family for 200 years. Another cure for hydrophobia was to suck the wounds, 
then cauterize them with a hot knife or poker.   While nowadays 
we recognize the fact that there are many causes for bleeding at 
the nose, not long ago a nosebleed was simply that, and treatment had 
little 
variation. Since a fall or blow might have caused it, a cold pack 
was usually first aid. This might be applied to the top of the nose 
or the back of the neck, pressed on the upper lip, or inserted into the 
nostril (cotton was usually used in this last). Nosebleed could be 
stopped by wrapping a red woolen string about the patient's neck and 
tying in it a knot for each year of his life. Or the victim could chew 
hard on a piece of paper, meanwhile pressing his fingers tight in 
his ears.   Old sores could be healed by the constant application 
of a wash made of equal parts vinegar and water. Blood blisters could 
be prevented from forming by rubbing a work blister immediately with 
any hard nonpoisonous substance. Felons were cured by taking common 
salt and drying it in the oven, pounding it fine, and mixing it with equal 
parts of spirits of turpentine; this mixture was then spread on 
a cloth and wrapped around the affected part. As the cloth dried, more 
of the mixture was applied, and after twenty-four hours the felon was 
supposed to be "killed".   Insect bites were cured in many 
ways. Many an old-timer swore by the saliva method; "get a bite, 
spit on it" was a proverb. This was used also for bruises. Yellow 
clay was used as a poultice for insect bites and also for swellings; 
not long ago "Denver Mud" was most popular. Chiggers were a 
common pest along streams and where gardens and berries thrived; so 
small as to be scarcely visible to the eye, they buried themselves in 
the victim's flesh. Bathing the itching parts with kerosene gave relief 
and also killed the pests. Ant bites were eased by applying liquid 
bluing. For mosquito bites a paste of half a glass of salt and half 
a glass of soda was made. For wasp stings onion juice, obtained by 
scraping an onion, gave quick relief. A handier remedy was to bathe the 
painful part in strong soapy water; mud was sometimes used as well 
as soap. Just plain old black dirt was also used as a pack to relieve 
wasp or bee stings.   Bedbugs were a common pest in pioneer days; 
to keep them out of homes, even in the 1900's, was a chore. Bed 
slats were washed in alum water, legs of beds were placed in cups 
of kerosene, and all woodwork was treated liberally with corrosive sublimate, 
applied with a feather. Kerosene was very effective in ridding 
pioneer homes of the pests. At times pioneer children got lice in their 
hair. A kerosene shampoo seems a heroic treatment, but it did the 
job.   To remove an insect from one's ear warm water should 
be inserted. A cinder or other small object could be removed from the 
eye by placing a flaxseed in the eye. As the seed swelled its glutinous 
covering protected the eyeball from irritation, and both the cinder 
and the seed could soon be washed out. Another way to remove small 
objects from the eye was to have the person look cross-eyed; the particle 
would then move toward the nose, where it could be wiped out with 
a wisp of cotton.   Shingles were cured by gentian, an old drug, 
used in combinations. For erysipelas a mixture of one dram borax and 
one 
ounce glycerine was applied to the afflicted part on linen cloth. Itching 
skin, considered "just nerves", was eased by treating with 
whiskey and salt. Winter itch was treated by applying strong apple cider 
in which pulverized bloodroot had been steeped. To cure fungus growths 
on mouth or hands people made a strong tea by using a handful of 
sassafras bark in a quart of water. They drank half a cup of this morning 
and night, and they also washed and soaked their hands in the same 
solution. Six treatments cured one case which lasted a month and 
had defied other remedies. Frostbite was treated by putting the feet 
and hands in ice water or by rubbing them with snow. Now one hears that 
heat and hot water are used instead. Another remedy was oil of eucalyptus, 
used as well for chilblains. Chilblains were also treated with 
tincture of capsicum or cabbage leaves.   Boils have always been 
a source of much trouble. A German informant gave me a sure cure 
made by combining rye flour and molasses into a poultice. Another poultice 
was made from the inner bark of the elm tree, steeped in water 
until it formed a sticky, gummy solution. This was also used for sores. 
Another frequent pioneer difficulty, caused by wearing rough and heavy 
shoes and boots, was corns. One veracious woman tells me she has 
used thin potato parings for both corns and calluses on her feet and they 
remove the pain or "fire". Another common cure was to soak the 
feet five or ten minutes in warm water, then to apply a solution of 
equal parts of soda and common brown soap on a kid bandage overnight. 
This softened the skin so that in the morning when the bandage was removed 
the corn could be scraped off and a bit of corn plaster put on.

There were many cures for warts. One young girl told me how her 
mother removed a wart from her finger by soaking a copper penny in 
vinegar for three days and then painting the finger with the liquid several 
times. Another wart removal method was to rub each wart with a 
bean split open and then to bury the bean halves under the drip of the 
house for seven days. Saliva gathered in the mouth after a night's 
sleep was considered poisonous; wetting a wart with this saliva on 
wakening the first thing in the morning was supposed to cause it to disappear 
after only a few treatments, and strangely enough many warts did 
just that. One wart cure was to wrap it in a hair from a blonde gypsy. 
Another was to soak raw beef in vinegar for twenty-four hours, tie 
it on the wart, and wear it for a week. A simpler method was to tie 
a thread tightly around the wart at its base and wear it this way. I 
know this worked. One person recommended to me washing the wart with 
sulphur water; another said it should be rubbed with a cut potato 
three times daily. Another common method was to cut an onion in two and 
place each half on the wart for a moment; the onion was then fastened 
together with string and placed beneath a dripping eave. As the 
onion decayed, so did the wart.   Sore muscles were relieved by 
an arnica rub; sore feet by calf's-foot, an herb from the pioneer's 
ubiquitous herb garden, or by soaking the feet in a pan of hot water 
in which two cups of salt had been dissolved. Leg cramps, one person 
tells me, were relieved by standing barefoot with the weight of the 
body on the heel and pressing down hard. This does give relief, as I 
can testify. One doctor prescribed a tablespoon of whiskey or brandy 
before each meal for leg cramps. Pains in the back of the leg and in 
the abdomen were prevented from reaching the upper body by tying a rope 
about the patient's waist.   For sprains and swellings, one 
pint of cider vinegar and half a pint of spirits of turpentine added 
to three well beaten eggs was said to give speedy relief.

EXCEPT FOR the wine waiter in a restaurant- always an inscrutable 
plenipotentiary unto himself, the genii with the keys to unlock 
the gates of the wine world are one's dealer, and the foreign shipper 
or <negociant> who in turn supplies him. In instances where 
both of these are persons or firms with integrity, the situation is ideal. 
It may, on occasion, be anything but that. However, by cultivating 
a wine dealer and accepting his advice, one will soon enough ascertain 
whether he has any knowledge of wines (as opposed to what he may 
have been told by salesmen and promoters) and, better yet, whether he 
has a taste for wine. Again, by spreading one's purchases over several 
wine dealers, one becomes familiar with the names and specialties 
of reputable wine dealers and shippers abroad. This is important because, 
despite all the efforts of the French government, an appreciable 
segment of France's export trade in wines is still tainted with a 
misrepresentation approaching downright dishonesty, and there are many 
too many <negociants> who would rather turn a <sou> than amass a 
creditable reputation overseas.   A good <negociant> or shipper 
will not only be the man or the firm which has cornered the wines from 
the best vineyards, or the best parts of them; he may also be the 
one who makes and bottles the best blends- sound wines from vineyards 
generally in his own district. These are the wines the French themselves 
use for everyday drinking, for even in France virtually no one 
drinks the <Grands Crus> on a meal-to-meal basis. The <Grands 
Crus> are expensive, and even doting palates tire of them. And certainly, 
in the case of the beginner or the comparatively uninitiated wine 
drinker, the palate and the capacity for appreciation will not be ready 
for the <Grands Crus> as a steady diet without frequent recourse 
to <crus> of less renown. There is nothing <infra dig> about a 
good blend from a good shipper. Some of them are very delicious indeed, 
and there are many good ones exported- unfortunately, along with 
others not so good, and worse. Consultation with a reputable wine dealer 
and constant experimentation- "steering ever from the known to 
the unknown"- are the requisites.   Wine waiters are something 
else again; especially if one is travelling or dining out a great 
deal, their importance mounts. Most of them, the world over, operate 
on the same principle by which justice is administered in France and 
some other Latin countries: the customer is to be considered guilty 
of abysmal ignorance until proven otherwise, with the burden of proof 
on the customer himself. Now the drinking of wine (and happily so!) 
is for the most part a recondite affair, for manifestly, if everyone 
in the world who could afford the best wines also liked them, the 
supply would dry up in no time at all. This is the only valid, and extenuating, 
argument that may be advanced in defense of the reprehensible 
attitude of the common wine waiter. A really good wine waiter is, 
paradoxically, the guardian (and not the purveyor) of his cellar against 
the Visigoths. Faced, on the one hand, with an always exhaustible 
supply of his best wines, and on the other by a clientele usually equipped 
with inexhaustible pocketbooks, it is a wonder indeed that all wine 
waiters are not afflicted with chronic ambivalence. The one way to 
get around them- short of knowing exactly what one wants and sticking 
to it- is to frequent a single establishment until its wine waiter 
is persuaded that one is at least as interested in wine as in spending 
money. Only then, perhaps, will he reveal his jewels and his bargains.

Wine bought from a dealer should ideally be allowed to rest 
for several weeks before it is served. This is especially true of 
red wines, and a practice which, though not always practicable, is well 
worth the effort. It does no harm for wine to stand on end for a matter 
of days, but in terms of months and years it is fatal. Wine stored 
for a long time should be on its side; otherwise, the cork dries 
and air enters to spoil it. When stacking wine on its side in a bin, 
care should always be taken to be sure there is no air bubble left next 
to the cork. Fat bottles, such as Burgundies, have a way of rolling 
around in the bin and often need little props, such as a bit of cardboard 
or a chip of wood, to hold them in the proper reclining posture. 
Too much dampness in the cellar rots the corks, again with ill effects. 
The best rule of thumb for detecting corked wine (provided the eye 
has not already spotted it) is to smell the wet end of the cork after 
pulling it: if it smells of wine, the bottle is probably all right; 
if it smells of cork, one has grounds for suspicion.   Seasonal 
rises or drops in temperature are bad for wine: they age it prematurely. 
The ideal storage temperature for long periods is about fifty-five 
degrees, with an allowable range of five degrees above or below 
this, provided there are no sudden or frequent changes. Prolonged vibration 
is also undesirable; consequently, one's wine closet or cellar 
should be away from machines or electrically driven furnaces. If 
one lives near a subway or an express parkway, the solution is to have 
one's wines stored with a dealer and brought home a few at a time. 
Light, especially daylight, is always bad for wine.   All in 
all, though, there is a good deal of nonsense expended over the preparations 
thought necessary for ordinary wine drinking; many people go 
to extreme lengths in decanting, chilling or warming, or banishing without 
further investigation any bottle with so much as a slightly suspicious 
cork. No one should wish to deny these purists the obvious pleasure 
they derive from all this, and to give fair warning where warning 
is due, no one who becomes fond of wines ever avoids acquiring some degree 
of purism! But the fact remains that in most restaurants, including 
some of the best of Paris and Bordeaux and Dijon, the bottle 
is frankly and simply brought from the cellar to the table when ordered, 
and all the conditioning or preparation it ever receives takes place 
while the chef is preparing the meal. A white wine, already at cool 
cellar temperature, may be adequately chilled in a bucket of ice and 
water or the freezing compartment of a refrigerator (the former is far 
preferable) in about fifteen minutes; for those who live in a winter 
climate, there is nothing better than a bucket of water and snow. Though 
by no means an ideal procedure, a red wine may similarly be brought 
from the cellar to the dining room and opened twenty minutes or so 
before serving time. It may be a bit cold when poured; but again, 
as one will have observed at any restaurant worth its salt, wine should 
be served in a large, tulip-shaped glass, which is never filled more 
than half full. In this way, red wine warms of itself quite rapidly- 
and though it is true that it may not attain its potential of taste 
and fragrance until after the middle of the meal (or the course), in 
the meantime it will have run the gamut of many beguiling and interesting 
stages. The only cardinal sin which may be committed in warming 
a wine is to force it by putting it next to the stove or in front of an 
open fire. This invariably effaces any wine's character, and drives 
its fragrance underground.   It should not be forgotten that 
wines mature fastest in half-bottles, less fast in full bottles, slowly 
in Magnums- and slower yet in Tregnums, double Magnums, Jeroboams, 
Methuselahs, and Imperiales, respectively. Very old red wines 
often require several hours of aeration, and any red wine, brought from 
the cellar within half an hour of mealtime, should be uncorked and allowed 
some air. But white wines never! White wines should be opened 
when served, having been previously chilled in proportion to their 
sweetness. Thus, Sauternes or Barsacs should be very cold; a Pouilly-Fuisse 
or a Chablis somewhat less cold. Over-chilling is an accepted 
method for covering up the faults of many a cheap or poor white 
wine, especially a dry wine- and certainly less of a crime than serving 
a wine at a temperature which reveals it as unattractive. 
The fragrance and taste of any white wine will die a lingering death 
when it is allowed to warm or is exposed for long to the air. To quote 
Professor Saintsbury: "The last glass of claret or Burgundy 
is as good as the first; but the first glass of Chateau d'Yquem 
or Montrachet is a great deal better than the last"! This does not 
mean, though, that a red wine improves with prolonged aeration: there 
is a reasonable limit- and wines kept over to the next meal or 
the next day, after they have once been opened, are never as good. If 
this must be done, they should always be corked and kept in a cool place; 
it should be remembered that their lasting qualities are appreciably 
shorter than those of milk.   A few red wines, notably those 
of the Beaujolais, are better consumed at cellar temperature. By 
tradition, a red wine should be served at approximately room temperature- 
if anything a little cooler- and be aged enough for the tannin 
and acids to have worked out and the sediment have settled well. Thus, 
red wine must, if possible, never be disturbed or shaken; very old 
red wine is often decanted so that the puckering, bitter elements which 
have settled to the bottom will not be mingled with the wine itself. 
A tug-of-war between an old bottle and an inefficient corkscrew may 
do as much harm as a week at sea. The cork should be pulled gradually 
and smoothly, and the lip of the bottle wiped afterward.   Many 
people use wicker cradles for old red wine, lifting the bottle carefully 
from the bin into the cradle and eventually to the table, without 
disturbing the sediment. Another school frowns on such a shortcut, and 
insists that after leaving the bin an old red wine should first stand 
on end for several days to allow the sediment to roll to the very bottom, 
after which the bottle may be gently eased to a tilted position 
on its side in the cradle.   In France, when one wishes to entertain 
at a restaurant and serve truly fine old red wines, one visits the 
restaurant well ahead of time, chooses the wines and, with the advice 
of the manager and his chef, builds the menu around them. The wine 
waiter will see to it that the bottles are taken from the bin and opened 
at least in time to warm and aerate, preferably allowed to stand on 
end for as long as possible and, perhaps in the case of very old wines, 
be decanted. Decanting old wine aerates it fully; it may also be- 
practically speaking- a matter of good economy. For, in the process 
of decanting, the bottle is only tilted once instead of several 
or more times at the table: hence, a minimum of the undesirable mixture 
of wine and dregs.   Though there are many exceptions, which 
we have noted in preceding pages, white wine is as a rule best consumed 
between two and six years old, and red wines, nowadays, between three 
and ten. Red wines of good years tend to mature later and to keep 
longer; the average claret is notably longer-lived than its opposite 
number, red Burgundy. Some clarets do not come into their own until 
they are ten or fifteen years of age, or even more. If a red Bordeaux 
of a good name and year is bitter or acid, or cloying and muddy-tasting, 
leave it alone for a while. Most of the wines of Beaujolais, on 
the other hand, <should> be drunk while very young; and Alsatians 
<may> be. 
Giffen replied punctually and enthusiastically: "Rest assured that 
your accompanying Letter of Instructions shall be in the Letter 
and Spirit strictly complied with **h and most particularly in regard 
to that part of them relative to the completion of your noble and humane 
views".   Giffen lost no time in visiting the plantation. 
The slaves appeared to be in good health and at work under John Palfrey's 
overseer. An excellent crop was expected that year. 
William, 
who lived in neighboring St& Mary's parish, had taken charge and 
decided that it would be best for all if the plantation were operated 
for another year. Giffen advised acceptance of this plan, citing the 
depressed market for land then prevailing and the large stock of provisions 
at the plantation. If sold then, the land and improvements might 
bring only $5,000. Early in January, 1844 he had a conference with 
Henry and William in New Orleans, and upon learning of Gorham's 
intention, Henry remonstrated calmly but firmly with his brother. 
The emancipation plan would not only be injurious to all the heirs, 
he contended, but would be a form of cruelty perpetrated on the hapless 
Negroes. They were not capable of supporting themselves off the plantation, 
and Louisiana law required their removal from the state. Gorham 
refused to accept money for slave property, but did he realize how 
much expense and trouble the transportation of his Negroes to the 
North involved? The suggestion that Giffen hire out the slaves was 
not realistic, since no planter would take the risk of having Negroes 
who knew they were to be free living with his own slaves. Henry hid 
his annoyance, although both he and William were furious with their 
Yankee brother. William, who did not write to Gorham, told Giffen 
that unless he could operate the plantation as usual for a year, he would 
sue "amicably" to protect his interests.   Palfrey was 
determined 
that his portion of the slaves be converted to wage laborers 
during the transition period before emancipation. If William wished 
to continue operations for a year, why not simply leave the Negroes 
undisturbed and pay them "as high wages to remain there as are ever 
paid the labor of persons of their sex + age. A disposition to exert 
themselves for my benefit would perhaps be a motive with some of them 
**h to come into the scheme. Their having family ties on our plantation 
+ the adjoining one would be a stronger inducement". When he heard 
of his brothers' anger, Palfrey was still hopeful that they could 
be persuaded to accept his notion of paying wages. If not, he was willing 
to accede to William's wishes in any way that did not block 
his ultimate aim. William was adamant on one point: under no circumstances 
would he allow the Negroes to remain on the plantation with his 
and Henry's slaves if they were told of their coming freedom. Knowing 
the antipathy that existed in Louisiana against increasing the 
number of free Negroes, Giffen suggested that Palfrey bring them 
to Boston at once, and then send them on to Liberia. Lacking specific 
instructions, he agreed to William's condition.   In March 
there was a division of the slaves, and Giffen carried out his instructions 
as nearly as possible. Of the fifty-two slaves, Giffen succeeded 
in getting a lot of twenty, twelve of whom were females. "I considered 
that your views would be best carried out", he explained, 
"by taking women whose progeny will of course be free + more fully extend 
the philantrophy of Emancipation. I have also taken the old servants 
of your father as a matter of Conscience + Justice". The ages 
of the slaves ranged from sixty-five, for an old house servant, to 
an unnamed newborn child. If Palfrey ever had any doubts about the 
wickedness of slavery, they were put aside after he received an inventory 
of the slave property he had inherited. This cold reckoning of human 
worth in a legal paper, devoid of compassion or humanity, was all 
he needed. Each human being, known only by a given name, had a cash value. 
Old Sam's sixty-five years had reduced his value to $150; 
Rose, a twelve-year-old with child-bearing potential, was worth $400. 
In rejecting any claim to the value of the slave property, Palfrey 
was giving up close to $7,000.   Palfrey's brothers each received 
lots of sixteen Negroes, and for bookkeeping purposes it was agreed 
that all lots were to be valued at $6,666.66. Thus twenty "black 
souls" were to remain ignorant of their imminent journey to the land 
of free men. Giffen extracted one concession from William: the house 
servants could be free at any time Gorham thought expedient.

Despite Giffen's warning, Palfrey still had plans for freeing 
his slaves in Louisiana. Yet even if he could get the necessary approval, 
fourteen of his Negroes could not be manumitted without special 
permission. According to state law a slave had to be at least thirty 
years old before he could be freed. Palfrey petitioned the state legislature 
to waive the requirement. Otherwise, freedom would mean removal 
from the state in which "as the place of their past residence from 
birth, or for many years, it would **h be materially for their advantage 
to be at liberty to remain". On March 11 the Louisiana legislature 
voted unanimously to table the petition. News of the legislative 
veto appeared in the New Orleans papers, and Henry and William 
became incensed by the fact that they had not been told of the attempt 
in advance. Henry stormed into Giffen's office waving a copy of 
the New Orleans <Courier,> shouting that the emancipation scheme 
had become a public affair, and that it would reach the "Ears of the 
People on the Plantation, and make them restless + unhappy".

His brothers' anger caused Palfrey genuine concern, for he had 
imposed a dual mission upon himself: to free his slaves, and to keep 
the family from falling apart over the issue. When Giffen decided 
to charge him interest on the loan from John Palfrey, Gorham readily 
assented, vowing that in a matter of dollars and cents, his brothers 
would never have any cause to complain of him.   in view of these 
difficulties, Palfrey decided to go to Louisiana. Giffen had already 
urged him to journey south, if only for a few days to clear up matters. 
His duties as Massachusetts Secretary of State obliged him 
to wait until the adjournment of the legislature in mid-April. Palfrey 
told his wife of his intentions for the first time, and left for New 
Orleans apprehensively invoking a special blessing of Providence 
that he might be allowed to see his family again.   During his journey 
Palfrey stopped off to see two abolitionists. In both cases he 
desired information about placing the freedmen in homes once they arrived 
in the North. In New York, Lydia Maria Child welcomed him 
enthusiastically: "I have lately heard of you from the Legislature 
of Louisiana, and felt joy at your public recognition of the brotherhood 
of man". Mrs& Child, who had once apologized for sending 
editor Palfrey a book on slavery, now confided that she had helped one 
of Henry Palfrey's slaves escape to Canada some years before, 
but asked him not to advertise the fact in Louisiana. She agreed to 
take charge of five or six of the Negroes should Palfrey decide to send 
them north immediately. At Lexington, Kentucky, Palfrey consulted 
with Cassius M& Clay on the same subject, but with no apparent 
result.   Despite his apprehensions about his personal safety, 
Palfrey's reception in New Orleans was more than cordial. Instead 
of the expected "annoyances" due to the nature of his mission, 
he received many calling cards and invitations from "gentlemen of mark, 
on whom I had no sort of claim, + have had many more invitations 
than I could accept". He later told abolitionist Edmund Quincy of 
the "marked attention and civility" with which the New Orleans 
gentlemen and the upriver planters greeted him. The memory of this southern 
hospitality did not survive the trials of coming antislavery years 
and Civil War. Palfrey's autobiography contains a melodramatic 
account of two perilous days spent among the planters of Attakapas, 
"many of whom were coarse + passionate people, much excited by what 
they heard of my plans". He proceeded with his task bravely- in 
his memoirs, at least- before the "passions of my neighbors should 
have time to boil too high".   Palfrey had already made up his 
mind that he would allow the men, but not the women, to choose freely 
whether or not to go North for freedom. The women by remaining behind 
condemned their children, born and unborn, to bondage. He had a 
short private talk with each adult slave. Only one objected, but Palfrey 
soon convinced him that he ought to go with the others. All the 
slaves joined in requesting that they be allowed to delay their departure 
until the end of the planting season, so that they could get in "their 
own little produce". Palfrey agreed; the slaves were to remain 
as wage laborers for his account. William's threat that under 
no conditions would he allow "freedom-conscious" slaves to mix with 
his own was not carried out, for the plantation continued in operation 
as before. Palfrey returned to Massachusetts greatly relieved to 
have made an arrangement "so satisfactory to my judgment + my conscience".

From Cambridge, Palfrey maintained a close interest 
in the welfare of his slaves. In fact, as the time for their departure 
approached, his solicitousness increased. Should any slave change 
his mind and request to leave earlier, Giffen was to provide passage 
at once. When a sailing date of March, 1845 was finally 
established, 
Palfrey made sure that the Negroes would have comfortable quarters 
in New Orleans and aboard ship. Giffen assured him that the captain 
and his mate had personally promised to treat the Negroes with consideration. 
Palfrey was also concerned about the question of what wage 
to pay for their labor throughout 1844. The plantation was sold in January, 
1845, and Palfrey thought the new owner ought to pay his people 
two months' wages. Giffen suggested fifty dollars as fair compensation 
for a year's work; the new owner at Attakapas declined to 
enter into any philanthropic arrangement.   On March 21, 1845 the 
bark <Bashaw> weighed anchor at New Orleans, while on the levee 
Henry and William Palfrey waved farewell to their father's former 
chattels who must have looked back at the receding shore with mingled 
regret and jubilation.   Not all of Palfrey's slaves were 
aboard the <Bashaw>. Giffen had advised that it would not be too difficult 
to obtain freedom locally for the old house servants. Two of 
these were included in Palfrey's lot. Giffen filed a petition for 
permission to emancipate four slaves (all more than fifty years old) 
with the St& Martin's Parish Police Jury. After an initial rejection, 
which he attributed to a "general Excitement against Abolition 
and Emancipation", Giffen bribed the right individuals on the 
jury, and got the permission without further delay.   When the 
Negroes landed at Boston a month later they were, of course, no longer 
slaves. Slavery was prohibited in Massachusetts by the terms of 
the constitution of 1780, which declared "all men are born free and 
equal". Nevertheless, Palfrey arranged a religious ceremony at King's 
Chapel to formalize the emancipation. An eyewitness recalled 
how awkward the red-turbaned colored women appeared as they curtseyed 
in the church doorway, and the diffidence the former slaves displayed 
while they listened to the few words that declared them free.

Once the question of emancipation was settled to Palfrey's satisfaction, 
he faced a real problem in placing the freedmen in suitable homes 
as servants. Palfrey tried fruitlessly to place a Negro boy in 
the Hopedale Community, but he had better luck in his other attempts. 
Mrs& Child, true to her word, helped place Anna and her four children 
with a Quaker 
family named Hathaway near Canandaigua, New York. 
This group had been Palfrey's greatest worry since Anna was 
in bad health, and her children were too young to work for their keep.

But certainly the New Frontier has brought to Washington a 
group more varied in background and interest. Secretary of State Dean 
Rusk, a former Rhodes Scholar and Mills College dean, has headed 
the Rockefeller Foundation and in that role expended large sums for 
international cultural exchange. One of his initial acts in office 
was to appoint Philip Coombs of the Ford Foundation as the first 
Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs. 
("In the late forties and fifties", Coombs has declared in defining 
his role, "two strong new arms were added to reinforce United 
States foreign policy **h economic assistance and military assistance. 
As we embark upon the sixties we have an opportunity **h to build 
a third strong arm, aimed at the development of people, at the fuller 
realization of their creative human potential, and at better understanding 
among them".)   Many of the new appointees are art collectors. 
Ambassador-at-Large Averell Harriman has returned to the capital 
with a collection of paintings that include Renoir, Cezanne, Gauguin, 
Van Gogh, Toulouse-Lautrec, Degas, Matisse, Picasso, and 
Walt Kuhn. The Director of the Peace Corps, R& Sargent Shriver, 
Jr&, a Kennedy brother-in-law, collects heavily among the moderns, 
including Kenzo Okada and Josef Albers. Secretary of the Treasury 
Douglas Dillon owns a prize Monet, <Femmes dans un jardin>.

Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, former President 
of the Ford Motor Company, comes from a generation different from 
that of Eisenhower's own first Secretary of Defense, Charles Wilson, 
who had been head of General Motors. Unlike Wilson, who at 
times seemed almost anti-intellectual in his earthy pragmatism. McNamara 
is the scholar-businessman. An inveterate reader of books, he chose 
while working in Detroit to live in the University community of 
Ann Arbor, almost forty miles away. He selected as Comptroller of 
Defense, not a veteran accountant, but a former Rhodes Scholar, Charles 
Hitch, who is author of a study on <The Economics of Defense 
in the Nuclear Age>.   One of the President's special assistants, 
the Harvard dean McGeorge Bundy, was co-author with Henry 
L& Stimson of the latter's classic memoir, <On Active Service>. 
Another, Arthur M& Schlesinger, Jr&, has won a Pulitzer 
Prize in history; his wife, Marion, is a portrait painter. The 
Press Secretary, Pierre Salinger, was a child prodigy as a pianist. 
("It is always of sorrow to me when I find people who **h neither 
know nor understand music", he declared not long ago in proposing 
that White House prizes be awarded for music and art.) Mrs& Arthur 
Goldberg, wife of the Secretary of Labor, paints professionally 
and helps sponsor the Associated Artists' Gallery in the District 
of Columbia. ("Artists are always at a new frontier", she claims. 
"In fact, the search is almost more important than the find".) 
Mrs& Henry Labouisse, wife of the new director of the foreign 
aid program, is the writer and lecturer Eve Curie.   The list 
goes on. At last count, sixteen former Rhodes Scholars (see box on 
page 13) had been appointed to the Administration, second in number 
only to its Harvard graduates. Besides Schlesinger, the Justice Department's 
Information Director, Edwin Guthman, has won a Pulitzer 
Prize (for national reporting). Postmaster General J& Edward 
Day, who must deal with matters of postal censorship, is himself 
author of a novel, <Bartholf Street,> albeit one he was obliged to 
publish 
at his own expense.   Two men show promise of playing prominent 
roles:   William Walton, a writer-turned-painter, has 
been a long-time friend of the President. They arrived in Washington 
about the same time during the early postwar years: Kennedy as the 
young Congressman from Massachusetts; Walton, after a wartime stint 
with <Time-Life>, to become bureau chief for the <New Republic>. 
Both lived in Georgetown, were unattached, and shared an active 
social life. Walton, who soon made a break from journalism to become 
one of the capital's leading semi-abstract painters, vows that he 
and Kennedy never once discussed art in those days. Nonetheless, they 
found common interests. During last year's campaign, Kennedy asked 
Walton, an utter novice in organization politics, to assist him. 
Walton dropped everything to serve as a district co-ordinator in the 
hard-fought Wisconsin primary and proved so useful that he was promoted 
to be liaison officer to critically important New York City.

Walton, who served as a correspondent with General James Gavin's 
paratroopers during the invasion of France, combines the soul 
of an artist with the lingo of a tough guy. He provoked outraged editorials 
when, after a post-Inaugural inspection of the White House 
with Mrs& Kennedy, he remarked to reporters, "We just cased the 
joint to see what was there". But his credentials are impeccable. 
Already the President and the First Lady have deputized him to advise 
on matters ranging from the furnishing of the White House to the 
renovation of Lafayette Square. A man of great talent, he will continue 
to serve as a sort of Presidential trouble-shooter, strictly ex 
officio, for culture.   A more official representative is the Secretary 
of the Interior. Udall, who comes from one of the Mormon 
first-families of Arizona, is a bluff, plain-spoken man with a lust 
for politics and a habit of landing right in the middle of the fight. 
But even while sparring furiously with Republican politicians, he displays 
a deep and awesome veneration for anyone with cultural attainments. 
His private dining room has become a way station for visiting intellectuals 
such as C& P& Snow, Arnold Toynbee, and Aaron Copland.

Udall argues that Interior affairs should cover a great 
deal more than dams and wildlife preserves. After promoting Frost's 
appearance at the Inauguration, he persuaded the poet to return 
several months later to give a reading to a select audience of Cabinet 
members, members of Congress, and other Washington notables gathered 
in the State Department auditorium. The event was so successful 
that the Interior Secretary plans to serve as impresario for similar 
ones from time to time, hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment 
of the Administration.   His Ideas in this respect, however, 
sometimes arouse critical response. One tempest was stirred up last 
March when Udall announced that an eight-and-a-half-foot bronze statue 
of William Jennings Bryan, sculpted by the late Gutzon Borglum, 
would be sent "on indefinite loan" to Salem, Illinois, Bryan's 
birthplace. Spokesmen for the nation's tradition-minded sculptors 
promptly claimed that Udall was exiling the statue because of his 
own hostility to this art form. They dug up a speech he had made two 
years earlier as a Congressman, decrying the more than two hundred 
statues, monuments, and memorials which "dot the Washington landscape 
**h as patriotic societies and zealous friends are constantly hatching 
new plans". Hoping to cut down on such works, Udall had proposed 
that a politician be at least fifty years departed before he is memorialized.

He is not likely to win this battle easily. In the 
case of the Borglum statue an Interior aide was obliged to announce 
that there had been a misunderstanding and that the Secretary had no 
desire to "hustle" it out of Washington. The last Congress adopted 
seven bills for memorials, including one to Taras Shevchenko, 
the Ukrainian poet laureate; eleven others were introduced. Active 
warfare is raging between the forces pressing for a monument to the first 
Roosevelt on Theodore Roosevelt Island in the Potomac, and T& 
R&'s own living children, who wish to preserve the island as 
a wildlife sanctuary. The hotly debated plan for the capital's Franklin 
D& Roosevelt Memorial, a circle of huge tablets engraved with 
his speeches (and promptly dubbed by one of its critics, "Instant 
Stonehenge"), is another of Udall's headaches, since as supervisor 
of the National Parks Commission he will share in the responsibility 
for building it.   "Washington", President Kennedy 
has been heard to remark ironically, "is a city of southern efficiency 
and northern charm". There have been indications that he hopes 
to redress that situation, commencing with the White House. One of 
Mrs& Kennedy's initial concerns as First Lady was the sad state 
of the furnishings in a building which is supposed to be a national 
shrine. Ever since the fire of 1812 destroyed the beautiful furniture 
assembled by President Thomas Jefferson, the White House has collected 
a hodgepodge of period pieces, few of them authentic or aesthetic.

Mrs& Kennedy shows a determination to change all this. 
Not long after moving in she turned up a richly carved desk, hewed from 
the timbers of the British ship H&M&S& <Resolute> and 
presented to 
President Hayes by Queen Victoria. It now serves the President 
in his oval office. Later, browsing in an old issue of the 
<Gazette des Beaux-Arts,> she found a description of a handsome gilt 
pier-table purchased in 1817 by President James Monroe. She traced 
it to a storage room. With its coating of gold radiator paint removed- 
a gaucherie of some earlier tenant- it will now occupy its 
rightful place in the oval Blue Room on the first floor of the White 
House.   But it soon became clear that the search for eighteenth-century 
furniture (which Mrs& Kennedy feels is the proper period 
for 
the White House) must be pursued in places other than government storage 
rooms. 
The First Lady appointed a Fine Arts Advisory Committee 
for the White House, to locate authentic pieces as well as to arrange 
ways to acquire them. Her effort to put the home of living Presidents 
on the same basis as Mount Vernon and Monticello recognizes 
no party lines. By rough estimate her Committee, headed by Henry 
Francis Du Pont, contains three times as many Republicans as Democrats.

The press releases emanating from the White House give 
a clue to the activity within. A curator has been appointed. A valuable 
pencil-and-sepia allegorical drawing of Benjamin Franklin by Jean-Honore 
Fragonard has been donated by the art dealer Georges Wildenstein 
and now hangs in the Blue Room. The American Institute 
of Interior Designers is redecorating the White House library. Secretary 
and Mrs& Dillon have contributed enough pieces of Empire 
furniture, including Dolley Madison's own sofa, to furnish a room 
in that style. And part of a fabulous collection of <vermeil> hollowware, 
bequeathed to the White House by the late Mrs& Margaret 
Thompson Biddle, has been taken out of its locked cases and put on display 
in the State dining room.   Woman's place is in the home: 
man must attend to matters of the yard. One of the vexatious problems 
to first confront President Kennedy was the property lying just 
across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House. Congress had 
already appropriated money, and plans were well along to tear down the 
buildings flanking Lafayette Square and replace them with what one 
critic calls the "marble monumentality" of government office buildings. 
While a Senator, Kennedy had unsuccessfully pushed a bill to 
preserve the Belasco Theater, as well as the Dolley Madison and the 
Benjamin Taylor houses, all scheduled for razing.   What to 
do about it now that he was President? Only a few days after moving 
into the White House. Kennedy made a midnight inspection of the Square. 
Then he called in his friend Walton and turned over the problem 
to him, with instructions to work out what was best- provided it 
didn't pile unnecessary burdens on the President.   The situation 
involved some political perils. One of the offices slated for reconstruction 
is the aged Court of Claims, diagonally across the street 
from the White House. Logically, it should be moved downtown. But 
Judge Marvin Jones, senior member of the Court, is an elderly 
gentleman who lives at the nearby Metropolitan Club and desires to walk 
to work. More importantly, he also happens to be the brother-in-law 
of Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the House.   There were aesthetic 
problems as well as political. On delving deeper, Walton discovered 
that most of the buildings fronting the Square could be classified 
as "early nondescript". The old Belasco Theater, over which many 
people had grown sentimental, was only a shell of its former self 
after arduous years as a ~USO Center. The Dolley Madison House, 
Walton concluded, was scarcely worth preserving. "The attempt 
to save the Square's historic value", he declares, "came half a 
century too late". 
Surrounded by ancient elms, the campus is spacious and beautiful. The 
buildings are mostly Georgian. The Dartmouth student does not live 
in monastic seclusion, as he once did. But his is still a simple life 
relatively free of the female presence or influence, and he must go 
far, even though he may go fast, for sophisticated pleasures. He is 
still heir to the rare gifts of space and silence, if he chooses to be.

He is by no means the country boy he might have been in the 
last century, down from the hills with bear grease on his hair and a zeal 
for book learning in his heart. The men's shops on Hanover's 
Main Street compare favorably with those in Princeton and New Haven. 
And the automobiles that stream out of Hanover each weekend, 
toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke, are no less rakish than 
those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia. But there has 
always been an outdoor air to Dartmouth. The would-be sophisticate 
and the citybred youth adopt this air without embarrassment. No one 
here pokes fun at manly virtues. And this gives rise to an easy camaraderie 
probably unequaled elsewhere in the Ivy League. It even affects 
the faculty.   Thus, when Dartmouth's Winter Carnival- 
widely recognized as the greatest, wildest, roaringest college weekend 
anywhere, any time- was broadcast over a national television hookup, 
Prexy John Sloan Dickey appeared on the screen in rugged winter 
garb, topped off by a tam-o'-shanter which he confessed had been 
acquired from a Smith girl. President Dickey's golden retriever, 
frolicking in the snow at his feet, added to the picture of masculine 
informality.   This carefree disdain for "side" cropped up 
again in the same television broadcast. Dean Thaddeus Seymour, wearing 
ski clothes, was crowning a beauteous damsel queen of the Carnival. 
She must have looked temptingly pretty to the dean as he put the crown 
on her head. So he kissed her. No Dartmouth man was surprised.

Dartmouth students enjoy other unusual diversions with equal 
<sang-froid>. For example, groups regularly canoe down the Connecticut 
River. This is in honor of John Ledyard, class of 1773, who scooped 
a canoe out of a handy tree and first set the course way back in 
his own student days. And these hardy travelers are not unappreciated 
today. They are hailed by the nation's press, and Smith girls throng 
the riverbanks at Northampton and refresh the <voyageurs> with 
hot soup and kisses.   Dartmouth's favorite and most characteristic 
recreation is skiing. Since the days when their two thousand 
pairs of skis outnumbered those assembled anywhere else in the United 
States, the students have stopped regarding the Olympic Ski Team 
as another name for their own. Yet Dartmouth still is the dominant 
member of the Intercollegiate Ski Union, which includes the winter 
sports colleges of Canada as well as those of this country.   Dartmouth 
students ski everywhere in winter, starting with their own front 
door. They can hire a horse and go ski-joring behind him, or move 
out to Oak Hill, where there's a lift. The Dartmouth Skiway, 
at Holt's Ledge, ten miles north of the campus, has one of the best 
terrains in the East, ranging from novice to expert.   Forty 
miles farther north is Mount Moosilauke, Dartmouth's own mountain. 
Here, at the Ravine Lodge, President Dickey acts as host every 
year to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth 
Outing Club to life on the trails. The Lodge, built of hand-hewn 
virgin spruce, can handle fifty people for dining, sleeping, or 
lounging in its huge living room. The Outing Club also owns a chain 
of fourteen cabins and several shelters, extending from the Vermont 
hills, just across the river from the college, through Hanover to the 
College Grant- 27,000 acres of wilderness 140 miles north up in 
the logging country. The cabins are equipped with bunks, blankets, 
and cooking equipment and are ideal bases for hikes and skiing trips. 
The club runs regular trips to the cabins, but many of the students 
prefer to take off in small unofficial groups for a weekend of hunting, 
fishing, climbing, or skiing.   Under the auspices of the Outing 
Club, Dartmouth also has the Mountaineering Club, which takes 
on tough climbs like Mount McKinley, and Bait + Bullet, whose interests 
are self-evident, and even sports a Woodman's Team, which 
competes with other New England colleges in wood sawing and 
chopping, 
canoe races, and the like.   There is much to be said for a college 
that, while happily attuned to the sophisticated Ivies, still gives 
its students a chance to get up early in the morning and drive along 
back roads where a glimpse of small game, deer, or even bear is not 
uncommon. City boys find a lot of learning in the feel of an ax handle 
or in the sharp tang of a sawmill, come upon suddenly in a backwoods 
logging camp. And on the summit of Mount Washington, where thirty-five 
degrees below zero is commonplace and the wind velocity has registered 
higher than anywhere else in the world, there is a kind of wisdom 
to be found that other men often seek in the Himalayas "because 
it is there".   There is much to be said for such a college- 
and Dartmouth men have been accused of saying it too often and too 
loudly. Their affection for their college home has even caused President 
Dickey to comment on this "place loyalty" as something rather 
specially Hanoverian.   Probably a lawyer once said it best for 
all time in the Supreme Court of the United States. Early in the 
nineteenth century the State of New Hampshire was casting about 
for a way to found its own state university. It fixed on Dartmouth College, 
which was ready-made and just what the proctor ordered. The 
legislators decided to "liberate" Dartmouth and entered into a tug-o'-war 
with the college trustees over the control of classrooms, faculty, 
and chapel. For a time there were two factions on the campus 
fighting for possession of the student body.   The struggle was 
resolved in 1819 in the Supreme Court in one of the most intriguing 
cases in our judicial history. In 1817 the lawyers were generally debating 
the legal inviolability of private contracts and charters. A lawyer, 
hired by the college, was arguing specifically for Dartmouth: 
Daniel Webster, class of 1801, made her plight the dramatic focus 
of his whole plea. In an age of oratory, he was the king of orators, 
and both he himself and Chief Justice Marshall were bathed in manly 
tears, as Uncle Dan'l reached his thundering climax:   "It 
is, sir, as I have said, a small college, and yet there are those 
who love it **h".   Dartmouth is today still a small college- 
and still a private one, thanks to Webster's eloquence.   This 
is not out of keeping with its origins, probably the most humble of 
any in the Ivy group. Eleazar Wheelock, a Presbyterian minister, 
founded the school in 1769, naming it after the second earl of Dartmouth, 
its sponsor and benefactor. Eleazar, pausing on the Hanover plain, 
found its great forests and remoteness good and with his own hands 
built the first College Hall, a log hut dedicated "for the education 
+ instruction of Youth of the Indian Tribes in this Land in reading, 
writing + all parts of learning which shall appear necessary and 
expedient for civilizing + christianizing Children of Pagans as well 
as in all liberal Arts and Sciences; and also of English Youth 
and any others".   It was a hardy undertaking, and Wheelock's 
was indeed "a voice crying in the wilderness". A road had to 
be 
hacked through trackless forests between Hanover and Portsmouth to 
permit Governor Wentworth and a company of gentlemen to attend the first 
Dartmouth commencement in 1771. The governor and his retinue thoughtfully 
brought with them a glorious silver punchbowl which is still 
one of the cherished possessions of the college.   The exuberance 
on this occasion set a standard for subsequent Dartmouth gatherings. 
A student orator "produced tears from a great number of the learned" 
even before the punch was served. Then from the branches of a 
near-by tree an Indian underclassman, disdaining both the platform and 
the English language, harangued the assemblage in his aboriginal tongue. 
Governor Wentworth contributed an ox for a barbecue on the green 
beneath the three-hundred-foot pines, and a barrel of rum was broached. 
The cook got drunk, and President Wheelock proved to be a man 
of broad talents by carving the ox himself.   Future commencements 
were more decorous perhaps, but the number of graduates increased 
from the original four at a relatively slow pace. By the end of the 
nineteenth 
century, in 1893, when the Big Three, Columbia, and Penn 
were populous centers of learning, Dartmouth graduated only sixty-nine. 
The dormitories, including the beloved Dartmouth Hall, could barely 
house two hundred students in Spartan fashion.   Then in 1893 
Dr& William Jewett Tucker became president and the college's 
great awakening began. He transformed Dartmouth from a small New 
Hampshire institution into a national college. By 1907 the number of 
undergraduates had risen to 1,107. And at his last commencement, in 
that year, Dr& Tucker and Dartmouth were honored by the presence 
of distinguished academic visitors attesting to the new stature of the 
college. The presidents of Cornell, Wisconsin, C&C&N&Y&, 
Bowdoin, Vermont, Brown, Columbia, Princeton, Yale, and Harvard 
and the presidents emeritus of Harvard and Michigan were there.

Dartmouth is numerically still a small college today, with approximately 
twenty-nine hundred undergraduates. But it has achieved a 
cross-section of students from almost all the states, and two-thirds of 
its undergraduates come from outside New England. Over 450 different 
schools are usually represented in each entering class. Only a dozen 
or so schools send as many as six students, and there are seldom more 
than fifteen men in any single delegation. About two-thirds of the 
boys now come from public schools.   It is still a college only 
and not a university; it is, in fact, the only college in the Ivy 
group. However, three distinguished associated graduate schools offer 
professional curriculums- the Dartmouth Medical School (third oldest 
in the country and founded in 1797), the Thayer School of Engineering, 
and the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration. All 
three are purposely kept small, with a current total enrollment of 
about two hundred.   All three schools coordinate their educational 
programs with that of the undergraduate college and, like the college 
proper, 
place emphasis upon a broad liberal arts course as the proper foundation 
for specialized study. Students of the college who are candidates 
for the A&B& degree and can satisfy the academic requirements 
of the medical and business schools, may enter either of these associated 
schools at the beginning of senior year, thus completing the 
two-year postgraduate course in one year. The Thayer School offers 
a year of postgraduate study in somewhat the same way, after a boy wins 
a B&S& in engineering.   So Dartmouth is moving closer 
to the others in the Ivy group. It is still, however, the junior member 
of the League, if not in years at least in the catching up it has 
had to do. It has not been a well-known school for any part of the span 
the other Ivies have enjoyed. However much football has been over-emphasized, 
the public likes to measure its collegiate favorites by 
the scoreboard, so, while Yale need never give its record a thought again 
since outscoring its opponents 694 to 0 in the season of 1888, Dartmouth 
had to wait until its championship team of 1925 for national 
recognition.   It has come on with a rush in more significant areas. 
Today it espouses certain ideas in its curriculum that other institutions 
might consider somewhat breathtaking. But Dartmouth preserves 
its youthful brashness even in its educational attitudes, and, although 
some of its experiments may still be in the testing stage, they 
make for lively copy.   President Emeritus Hopkins once proposed 
to corral an "aristocracy of brains" in Hanover. 
The person who left the buggy there has never been identified. It was 
a busy street, conveniently near the shopping center, and unattended 
horses and wagons were often left at the curbside.   There are, 
of course, many weaknesses in any case against Emma. She didn't like 
her stepmother, but nothing is known to have occurred shortly before 
the crime that could have caused such a murderous rage. She had no 
way of knowing in advance whether an opportunity for murder existed. 
She would have been taking more than a fair risk of being seen and recognized 
during her travels. If she avoided the train and hired a buggy, 
the stableman might have recognized her. If police had checked on 
her more thoroughly than is indicated, she would be completely eliminated 
as a suspect. ##

Uncle John Vinnicum Morse was the immediate 
popular suspect. His sudden unannounced appearance at the Borden 
home was strange in that he did not carry an iota of baggage with him, 
although he clearly intended to stay overnight, if not longer.

Lizzie stated during the inquest that while her father and uncle were 
in the sitting room the afternoon before the murders, she had been 
disturbed by their voices and had closed her door, even though it was 
a very hot day.   It is evident that Lizzie did not tell everything 
she overheard between her father and her Uncle Morse. At that 
time Jennings had a young law associate named Arthur S& Phillips. 
A few years ago, not too long before his death, Phillips revealed 
in a newspaper story that he had always suspected Morse of the murders. 
He said Morse and Borden had quarreled violently in the house that 
day, information which must have come from Lizzie. It was obviously 
the sound of this argument that caused Lizzie to close her door.

The New Bedford <Standard-Times> has reported Knowlton 
as saying, long after the trial, that if he only knew what Borden said 
during his conversation with Morse, he would have convicted "somebody". 
Notice, Knowlton did not say that he would have obtained a 
conviction in the trial of Lizzie Borden. He said he would have convicted 
"somebody".   It is known that Morse did associate with 
a group of itinerant horse traders who made their headquarters at 
Westport, a town not far from Fall River. They were a vagabond lot 
and considered to be shady and undesirable characters. Fall River police 
did go to Westport to see if they could get any information against 
Morse and possibly find an accomplice whom he might have hired from 
among these men. These officers found no incriminating information.

Morse's alibi was not as solid as it seemed. He said he 
returned from the visit to his niece on the 11:20 streetcar. The woman 
in the house where the niece was staying backed up his story and said 
she left when he did to shop for her dinner. Fall River is not a 
fashionable town. The dinner hour there was twelve noon. If this woman 
had delayed until after 11:20 to start her shopping, she would have 
had little time in which to prepare the substantial meal that was 
eaten at dinner in those days. It is possible that Morse told the woman 
it was 11:20, but it could have been earlier, since she did serve 
dinner on time. Police did make an attempt to check on Morse's alibi. 
They interviewed the conductor of the streetcar Morse said he 
had taken, but the man did not remember Morse as a passenger. Questioned 
further, Morse said that there had been four or five priests riding 
on the same car with him. The conductor did recall having priests 
as passengers and this satisfied police, although the conductor also 
pointed out that in heavily Catholic Fall River there were priests 
riding on almost every trip the streetcar made, so Morse's statement 
really proved nothing.   We do know that Morse left the house 
before nine o'clock. Bridget testified she saw him leave through the 
side door. Morse said Borden let him out and locked the screen door. 
From that point on he said he went to the post office and then walked 
leisurely to where his niece was staying, more than a mile away. 
He met nobody he knew on this walk. There is no accounting of his movements 
in this long gap of time which covers the early hours when Mrs& 
Borden was killed.   Morse testified that while he was having 
breakfast in the dining room, Mrs& Borden told the servant, "Bridget, 
I want you to wash these windows today". Bridget's testimony 
was in direct contradiction. She said it was after she returned 
from her vomiting spell in the back yard that Mrs& Borden told 
her to wash the windows. This was long after Morse had left the house.

Morse's knowledge of what Mrs& Borden told Bridget could 
indicate that he had returned secretly to the house and was hidden 
there. He knew the house fairly well, he had been there on two previous 
visits during the past three or four months alone. And despite Knowlton's 
attempts to show that the house was locked up tighter than 
a drum, this was not true. The screen door was unlocked for some ten 
or fifteen minutes while Bridget was sick in the back. It was unlocked 
all the time she was washing windows. Morse could have returned 
openly while Bridget was sick in the back yard and gone up to the room 
he had occupied. Mrs& Borden would not have been alarmed if she 
saw Morse with an ax or hatchet in his hand. He had been to the farm 
the previous day and he could have said they needed the ax or hatchet 
at the farm. Mrs& Borden would have had no reason to disbelieve him 
and he could have approached close enough to her to swing before she 
could cry out. He could have left for Weybosset Street after her 
murder and made it in plenty of time by using the streetcar.   If 
he took an earlier streetcar than the 11:20 on his return, he could 
have arrived at the Borden house shortly after Mr& Borden came 
home. With Lizzie in the barn, the screen door unlocked and Bridget 
upstairs in her attic room, he would have had free and easy access to 
the house. With the second murder over, he could have left, hidden the 
weapon in some vacant lot or an abandoned cistern in the neighborhood. 
His unconcerned stroll down the side of the house to a pear tree, 
with crowds already gathering in front of the building and Sawyer guarding 
the side door, was odd. There was no close examination of his 
clothes for bloodstains, and certainly no scientific test was made of 
them. And for a man who traveled around without any change of clothing, 
a few more stains on his dark suit may very well have gone unnoticed.

The motive may have been the mysterious quarrel; there was 
no financial gain for Morse in the murders.   On the other side 
of the ledger is the fact that he did see his niece and the woman with 
whom she was staying. The time would have been shortly after the 
murder of Mrs& Borden and they noticed nothing unusual in his behavior. 
He said he had promised Mrs& Borden to return in time for dinner 
and that was close to the time when he did turn up at the Borden 
house. ##

What did Pearson say about Bridget Sullivan as a possible 
suspect in his trial-book essay? He wrote:   "The 
police soon ceased to look upon either Bridget or Mr& Morse as in 
possession of guilty knowledge. Neither had any interest in the deaths; 
indeed, it was probably to Mr& Morse's advantage to have 
Mr& and Mrs& Borden alive. Both he and Bridget were exonerated 
by Lizzie herself". That was his complete discussion of Bridget 
Sullivan as a possible suspect.   Although Pearson disbelieved 
almost everything Lizzie said, and read a sinister purpose into almost 
everything she did, he happily accepted her statement about Bridget 
as the whole truth. He felt nothing further need be said about the 
servant girl.   The exoneration Pearson speaks of is not an exoneration, 
but Lizzie's expression of her opinion, as reported in the 
testimony of Assistant Marshal Fleet. This officer had asked Lizzie 
if she suspected her Uncle Morse, and she replied she didn't 
think he did it because he left the house before the murders and returned 
after them. Fleet asked the same question about Bridget, and Lizzie 
pointed out that as far as she knew Bridget had gone up to her 
room 
before her father's murder and came down when she called her.

Lizzie, actually, never named any suspect. She told police about 
the prospective tenant she had heard quarreling with her father some 
weeks before the murders, but she said she thought he was from out of 
town because she heard him mention something about talking to his partner. 
And, much as she detested Hiram Harrington, she also did not 
accuse him. At the inquest she was asked specifically whether she knew 
anybody her father had bad feelings toward, or who had bad feelings 
toward 
her father. She replied, "I know of one man that has not been 
friendly with him. They have not been friendly for years". Asked 
who this was, she named Harrington. Her statement certainly was true; 
the press reported the same facts in using Harrington's interview, 
but Lizzie did not suggest at the inquest that Harrington was the 
killer.   When I interviewed Kirby, who as a boy picked up pears 
in the Borden yard, I asked if anybody else in the household besides 
Lizzie and Morse had been under any suspicion at the time of the 
murders. He said he had not heard of anybody else. "How about Bridget 
Sullivan"? I inquired. "Oh, she was just the maid there", 
he replied, waving a hand to indicate how completely unimportant 
she was. Kirby was, of course, reflecting the opinion that existed 
at the time of the murders.   Everyone somehow manages to overlook 
completely the fact that, as far as we know, there were exactly two 
people in and about the house at the time of both murders: Lizzie 
Borden and Bridget Sullivan.   All the officials on the case 
seem to have been afflicted with a similar myopia as far as Bridget was 
concerned, although records in police files contain many reports of 
servants who have murdered their employers. True, it is no longer cricket 
for the butler to be the killer in mystery fiction, but we are dealing 
here with actual people in real life and not imaginary characters 
and situations.   The actions of Bridget should be examined, 
since she was there and opportunity did exist, if only to establish her 
innocence. There are also other factors that require closer examination.

The legend as it exists in Fall River today always includes 
the solemn assurance that Bridget returned to Ireland after the 
trial with a "big bundle" of cash which Lizzie gave her for keeping 
her mouth shut. The people who believe and retell the legend have 
apparently never troubled to read the trial testimony and do not know 
that the maid changed her testimony on several key points, always to 
the detriment of Lizzie. If Bridget did get any bundles of cash, 
the last person who would have rewarded her for services rendered would 
have been Lizzie Borden.   Bridget was born in Ireland, one 
of fourteen children. She was apparently the pioneer in her family because 
she had no close relatives in this country at that time. She worked 
as a domestic, first in Newport for a year, and then in South 
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, for another year. She finally settled in Fall 
River and, after being employed for a time by a Mrs& Reed, was 
hired by the Bordens.   I have previously described how, during 
the week of the murder, Bridget spent the first few hot days scrubbing 
and ironing clothes. 
Her father, James Upton, was the Upton mentioned by Hawthorne in 
the famous introduction to the <Scarlet Letter> as one of those who 
came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor 
of the port. A gentleman of the old school, Mr& Upton possessed 
intellectual power, ample means, and withal, was a devoted Christian. 
The daughter profited from his interest in scientific and philosophical 
subjects. Her mother also was a person of superior mind and broad 
interests.   There is clear evidence that Lucy from childhood 
had an unusual mind. She possessed an observant eye, a retentive memory, 
and a critical faculty. When she was nine years old, she wrote 
a description of a store she had visited. She named 48 items, and said 
there were "many more things which it would take too long to write". 
An essay on "Freedom" written at 10 years of age quoted the 
Declaration of Independence, the freedom given to slaves in Canada, 
and the views of George Washington.   Lucy Upton was graduated 
from the Salem High School when few colleges, only Oberlin and 
Elmira, were open to women; and she had an appetite for learning 
that could not be denied.   A picture of her in high school comes 
from a younger schoolmate, Albert S& Flint, friend of her brother 
Winslow, and later, like Winslow, a noted astronomer. He recalled 
Lucy, as "a bright-looking black-eyed young lady who came regularly 
through the boys' study hall to join the class in Greek in the little 
recitation room beyond". The study of Greek was the distinctive 
mark of boys destined to go to college, and Lucy Upton too expected 
to go to college and take the full classical course offered to men. 
The death of her mother in 1865 prevented this. With four younger 
children at home, Lucy stepped into her mother's role, and even after 
the brothers and sisters were grown, she was her father's comfort 
and stay until he died in 1879. But even so Lucy could not give up 
her intellectual pursuits. When her brother Winslow became a student 
at Brown University in 1874, she wrote him about a course in history 
he was taking under Professor Diman: "What is Prof& Diman's 
definition of civilization, and take the world through, is its progress 
ever onward, or does it retrograde at times? Do you think I 
might profitably study some of the history you do, perhaps two weeks 
behind you **h". And that she proceeded to do.   Many years later 
(on August 3, 1915), Lucy Upton wrote Winslow's daughter soon 
to be graduated from Smith College: "While I love botany which, 
after dabbling in for years, I studied according to the methods 
of that day exactly forty years ago in a summer school, it must be fascinating 
to take up zoology in the way you are doing. Whatever was the 
science in the high school course for the time being, that was my favorite 
study. Mathematics came next".   Her study of history 
was persistently pursued. She read Maitland's <Dark Ages>, "which 
I enjoyed very much"; La Croix on the <Customs of the Middle 
Ages>; 16 chapters of Bryce "and liked it more and more"; 
more chapters of Guizot; Lecky and Stanley's <Eastern Church>. 
She discussed in her letters to Winslow some of the questions 
that came to her as she studied alone.   Lucy's correspondence 
with brother Winslow during his college days was not entirely taken 
up with academic studies. She played chess with him by postcard. 
Also Lucy and Winslow had a private contest to see which one could 
make the most words from the letters in "importunately". Who won 
is not revealed, but Winslow's daughter Eleanor says they got up to 
1,212 words.   There was another family interest also. Winslow 
had musical talents, as had his father before him. At different times 
he served as glee-club and choir leader and as organist. And it was 
Lucy Upton who first started the idea of a regular course in Music 
at Spelman College.   Winslow Upton after graduation from Brown 
University and two years of graduate study, accepted a position 
at the Harvard Observatory. For three years he was connected with 
the U&S& Naval Observatory and with the U&S& Signal Corps; 
and after 1883, was professor of astronomy at Brown University. 
The six expeditions to study eclipses of the sun, of which he was 
a member, took him to Colorado, Virginia, and California as well as 
to the South Pacific and to Russia. After her father's death, Lucy 
and her youngest sister lived for a few years with Winslow in Washington, 
D&C&. "Their house", writes Albert S& Flint, 
"was always a haven of hospitality and good cheer, especially grateful 
to one like myself far from home". Lucy was a lively part of the 
household. Moreover, she had physical as well as mental vigor. Winslow, 
as his daughters Eleanor and Margaret recall, used to characterize 
her as "our iron sister". There is reason to suppose that Lucy 
would have made a record as publicly distinguished as her brother 
had it not been that her mother's death occurred just as she was about 
to enter college. As a matter of fact, Albert S& Flint expressed 
his conviction that "her physical strength, her mental power, her 
lively interest in all objects about her and her readiness to serve 
her fellow beings" would have led her "to a distinguished career 
amongst the noted women of this country".   While in Washington, 
D&C&, Lucy Upton held positions in the U&S& Census 
Office, and in the Pension Bureau. They were not sufficiently challenging 
however, and she resigned in 1887, to go to Germany with her 
brother Winslow and his family while he was there on study. After the 
months in Europe, she returned to Boston and became active in church 
and community life.   What was called an "accidental meeting" 
with Miss Packard in Washington turned her attention to Spelman. 
Here was a cause she believed in. After correspondence with Miss 
Packard and to the joy of Miss Packard and Miss Giles, she came 
to Atlanta, in the fall of 1888, to help wherever needed, although 
there was then no money available to pay her a salary. She served for 
a number of years without pay beyond her travel and maintenance.

Her students have spoken of the exacting standards of scholarship 
and of manners and conduct she expected and achieved from the students; 
of her "great power of discernment"; of "her exquisiteness 
of dress", "her well-modulated voice that went straight to the hearts 
of the hearers"; her great love of flowers and plants and birds; 
and her close knowledge of individual students.   She drew 
on all her resources of mind and heart to help them- to make them 
at home in the world; and as graduates gratefully recall, she drew on 
her purse as well. Many a student was able to remain at Spelman, only 
because of her unobtrusive help.   Under Miss Upton, the work 
of the year 1909-10 went forward without interruption. After all, 
she had come to Spelman Seminary in 1888, and had been since 1891 except 
for one year, Associate Principal or Dean. She had taught classes 
in botany, astronomy (with the aid of a telescope), geometry, 
and 
psychology.   Miss Upton and Miss Packard, as a matter of fact, 
had many tastes in common. Both had eager and inquiring minds; and 
both believed that intellectual growth must go hand in hand with the 
development of sturdy character and Christian zeal. Both loved the 
out-of-doors, including mountain climbing and horseback riding. In 1890 
when the trip to Europe and the Holy Land was arranged for Miss 
Packard, it was Miss Upton who planned the trip, and "with rare 
executive ability" bore the brunt of "the entire pilgrimage from 
beginning to end". So strenuous it was physically, with its days of 
horseback riding over rough roads that it seems an amazing feat of endurance 
for both Miss Packard and Miss Upton. Yet they thrived on 
it.   At the Fifteenth 
Anniversary (1896) as already quoted, Miss 
Upton projected with force and eloquence the Spelman of the Future 
as a college of first rank, with expanding and unlimited horizons. 
When Dr& Wallace Buttrick, wise in his judgment of people, declined 
to have the Science Building named for him, he wrote Miss Tapley 
(April 7, 1923) "**h If you had asked me, I think I would have 
suggested that you name the building for Miss Upton. Her services 
to the School for many years were of a very high character, and I 
have often thought that one of the buildings should be named for her".

Such were the qualities of the Acting-President of the Seminary 
after the death of Miss Giles.   At the meeting of the 
Board of Trustees, on March 3, 1910, Miss Upton presented the annual 
report of the President. She noted that no student had been withdrawn 
through loss of confidence; that the enrollment showed an increase 
of boarding students as was desired; and that the year's work 
had gone forward smoothly. She urged the importance of more thorough 
preparation for admission. The raising of the $25,000 Improvement 
Fund two days before the time limit expired, and the spontaneous "praise 
demonstration" held afterward on the campus, were reported as 
events which had brought happiness to Miss Giles. With the Fund in 
hand, the debt on the boilers had been paid; Rockefeller and Packard 
Halls had been renovated; walks laid; and ground had been broken 
for the superintendent's home. Miss Upton spoke gratefully of 
the response of Spelman graduates and Negro friends in helping to raise 
the Fund, and their continuing efforts to raise money for greatly 
needed current expenses. She spoke also with deep thankfulness of the 
many individuals and agencies whose interest and efforts through the 
years had made the work so fruitful in results.   Two bequests 
were recorded: one of $200 under the will of Mrs& Harriet A& 
Copp of Los Angeles; and one of $2,000 under the will of Miss Celia 
L& Brett of Hamilton, New York, a friend from the early days.

Miss Upton told the Trustees that the death of Miss Giles 
was "the sorest grief" the Seminary had ever been called upon 
to bear. The daughters of Spelman, she said, had never known or thought 
of Spelman without her. The removal of Miss Packard 18 years earlier 
had caused them great sorrow, but they still had Miss Giles. 
Now the school was indeed bereft. "Yet Spelman has strong, deep roots, 
and will live for the blessing of generations to come". #@# 

Miss Mary Jane Packard, Sophia's half-sister, became ill in 
March, 1910; and when school closed, she was unable to travel to Massachusetts. 
She remained in Atlanta through June and July; she 
died on August sixth.   Before coming on a visit to Spelman 
in 1885, Miss Mary had been a successful teacher in Worcester, and 
her position there was held open for her for a considerable period. But 
she decided to stay at Spelman. She helped with teaching as well 
as office work for a few years- the catalogues show that she had classes 
in geography, rhetoric and bookkeeping. Soon the office work claimed 
all her time. She was closely associated with the Founders in all 
their trials and hardships. Quiet and energetic, cheerful and calm, 
she too was a power in the development of the seminary. Miss Giles 
always used to refer to her as "Sister". She served as secretary 
in the Seminary office for 25 years, and was in charge of correspondence, 
records, and bookkeeping. The books of the school hold a memorial 
to her; and so do the hearts of students and of teachers.

Mary J& Packard, states a <Messenger> editorial, was "efficient, 
pains-taking, self-effacing, loving, radiating the spirit of her 
Master. With infinite patience she responded to every call, no matter 
at what cost to herself, and to her all went, for she was sure to 
have the needed information or word of cheer.

In a few school districts one finds a link between school and 
job. In those vocational programs organized with Smith-Hughes money, 
there may be a close tie between the labor union and a local employer 
on the one hand and the vocational teacher on the other. In these cases 
a graduate may enter directly into an apprentice program, saving 
a year because of his vocational courses in grades 11 and 12. The apprentice 
program will involve further education on a part-time basis, usually 
at night, perhaps using some of the same equipment of the high 
school. These opportunities are to be found in certain cities in such 
crafts as auto mechanics, carpentry, drafting, electrical work, tool-and-die 
work, and sheet-metal work.   Formally organized vocational 
programs supported by federal funds allow high school students to 
gain experience in a field of work which is likely to lead to a full-time 
job on graduation. The "diversified occupations" program is a 
part-time trade-preparatory program conducted over two school years on 
a cooperative basis between the school and local industrial and business 
employers. The "distributive education" program operates in 
a similar way, with arrangements between the school and employers in 
merchandising 
fields. In both cases the student attends school half-time 
and works in a regular job the other half. He receives remuneration 
for his work. In a few places cooperative programs between schools 
and employers in clerical work have shown the same possibilities for allowing 
the student, while still in school, to develop skills which are 
immediately marketable upon graduation.   Adult education courses, 
work-study programs of various sorts- these are all evidence of 
a continuing interest of the schools in furthering educational opportunities 
for out-of-school youth. In general, however, it may be said 
that when a boy or a girl leaves the high school, the school authorities 
play little or no part in the decision of what happens next. If the 
student drops out of high school, the break with the school is even 
more complete. When there is employment opportunity for youth, this 
arrangement- or lack of arrangement- works out quite well. Indeed, 
in some periods of our history and in some neighborhoods the job opportunities 
have been so good that undoubtedly a great many boys who were 
potential members of the professions quit school at an early age and 
went to work. Statistically this has represented a loss to the nation, 
although one must admit that in an individual case the decision in 
retrospect may have been a wise one. I make no attempt to measure the 
enduring satisfaction and material well-being of a man who went to work 
on graduation from high school and was highly successful in the business 
which he entered. He may or may not be "better off" than his 
classmate who went on to a college and professional school. But in 
the next decades the nation needs to educate for the professions all 
the potential professional talent.   In a later chapter dealing 
with the suburban school, I shall discuss the importance of arranging 
a program for the academically talented and highly gifted youth in any 
high school where he is found. In the Negro neighborhoods and also 
to some extent in the mixed neighborhoods the problem may be one of 
identification and motivation. High motivation towards higher education 
must start early enough so that by the time the boy or girl reaches 
grade 9 he or she has at least developed those basic skills which are 
essential for academic work. Undoubtedly far more can be done in the 
lower grades in this regard in the Negro schools. However, the teacher 
can only go so far if the attitude of the community and the family 
is anti-intellectual. And the fact remains that there are today few 
shining examples of Negroes in positions of intellectual leadership. 
This is not due to any policy of discrimination on the part of the Northern 
universities. Quite the contrary, as I can testify from personal 
experience as a former university president. Rather we see here 
another vicious circle. The absence of successful Negroes in the world 
of scholarship and science has tended to tamp down enthusiasm among 
Negro youth for academic careers. I believe the situation is improving, 
but the success stories need to be heavily publicized. Here again 
we run into the roadblock that Negroes do not like to be designated 
as Negroes in the press. How can the vicious circle be broken? This 
is a problem to which leaders of opinion, both Negro and white, 
should devote far more attention. It is at least as important as the 
more dramatic attempts to break down barriers of inequality in the South. 

#VOCATIONAL EDUCATION#

I should like to underline four points 
I made in my first report with respect to vocational education. First 
and foremost, vocational courses should not replace courses which 
are essential parts of the required academic program for graduation. Second, 
vocational courses should be provided in grades 11 and 12 and 
not require more than half the student's time in those years; however, 
for slow learners and prospective dropouts these courses ought to 
begin earlier. Third, the significance of the vocational courses is 
that those enrolled are keenly interested in the work; they realize 
the relevance of what they are learning to their future careers, and this 
sense of purpose is carried over to the academic courses which they 
are studying at the same time. Fourth, the type of vocational training 
programs should be related to the employment opportunities in the 
general locality. This last point is important because if high school 
pupils are aware that few, if any, graduates who have chosen a certain 
vocational program have obtained a job as a consequence of the training, 
the whole idea of relevance disappears. Vocational training which 
holds no hope that the skill developed will be in fact a marketable 
skill becomes just another school "chore" for those whose interest 
in their studies has begun to falter. Those who, because of population 
mobility and the reputed desire of employers to train their own employees, 
would limit vocational education to general rather than specific 
skills ought to bear in mind the importance of motivation in any kind 
of school experience.   I have been using the word "vocational" 
as a layman would at first sight think it should be used. I intend 
to include under the term all the practical courses open to boys 
and girls. These courses develop skills other than those we think of 
when we use the adjective "academic". Practically all of these practical 
skills are of such a nature that a degree of mastery can be obtained 
in high school sufficient to enable the youth to get a job at 
once on the basis of the skill. They are in this sense skills marketable 
immediately on graduation from high school. To be sure, in tool-and-die 
work and in the building trades, the first job must be often 
on an apprentice basis, but two years of half-time vocational training 
enables the young man thus to anticipate one year of apprentice status. 
Similarly, a girl who graduates with a good working knowledge of stenography 
and the use of clerical machines and who is able to get a job 
at once may wish to improve her skill and knowledge by a year or two 
of further study in a community college or secretarial school. Of course, 
it can be argued that an ability to write English correctly and 
with some degree of elegance is a marketable skill. So, too, is the 
mathematical 
competence of a college graduate who has majored in mathematics. 
In a sense almost all high school and college courses could be 
considered as vocational to the extent that later in life the student 
in his vocation (which may be a profession) will be called upon to use 
some of the skills developed and the competence obtained. In spite 
of the shading of one type of course into another, I believe it is useful 
to talk about vocational courses as apart from academic courses. 
Perhaps a course in typewriting might be regarded as the exception which 
proves the rule. Today many college bound students try to take a 
course in personal typing, as they feel a certain degree of mastery of 
this skill is almost essential for one who proposes to do academic work 
in college and a professional school.   Most of our largest 
cities have one or more separate vocational or technical high schools. 
In this respect, public education in the large cities differs from education 
in the smaller cities and consolidated school districts. The 
neighborhood high schools are not, strictly speaking, comprehensive schools, 
because some of the boys and girls may be attending a vocational 
or technical high school instead of the local school. Indeed, one 
school superintendent in a large city objects to the use of the term 
comprehensive 
high school for the senior high schools in his city, because 
these schools do not offer strictly vocational programs. He prefers 
to designate such schools as "general" high schools. The suburban 
high school, it is worth noting, also is not a widely comprehensive 
high school because of the absence of vocational programs. The reason 
is that there is a lack of interest on the part of the community. Therefore 
employment and education in all the schools in a metropolitan 
area are related in different ways from those which are characteristic 
of the comprehensive high school described in my first report.

The separate vocational or technical high schools in the large cities 
must be reckoned as permanent institutions. By and large their programs 
are satisfactorily connected both to the employment situation and 
to the realities of the apprentice system. It is not often realized 
to what degree certain trades are in many communities closed areas of 
employment, except for a lucky few. One has to talk confidentially with 
some of the directors of vocational high schools to realize that a 
boy cannot just say, "I want to be a plumber", and then, by doing 
good work, find a job. It is far more difficult in many communities 
to obtain admission to an apprentice program which involves union approval 
than to get into the most selective medical school in the nation. 
Two stories will illustrate what I have in mind. One vocational instructor 
in a city vocational school, speaking of his course in a certain 
field, said he had no difficulty placing all students in jobs <outside> 
of the city. In the city, he said, the waiting list for those 
who want to join the union is so long that unless a boy has an inside 
track he can't get in. In a far distant part of the United States, 
I was talking to an instructor about a boy who in the twelfth grade 
was doing special work. "What does he have in mind to do when he 
graduates"? "Oh, he'll be a plumber", came the answer. "But 
isn't it almost impossible to get into the union"? I asked. 
"He'll have no difficulty", I was told. "He has very good 
connections".   In my view, there should be a school which offers 
significant vocational programs for boys within easy reach of every 
family in a city. Ideally these schools should be so located that 
one or more should be in the area where demand for practical courses is 
at the highest.   An excellent example of a successful location 
of a new vocational high school is the Dunbar Vocational High School 
in Chicago. Located in a bad slum area now undergoing redevelopment, 
this school and its program are especially tailored to the vocational 
aims of its students. Hardly a window has been broken since 
Dunbar 
first was opened (and vandalism in schools is a major problem in many 
slum areas). I discovered in the course of a visit there that almost 
all the pupils were Negroes. They were learning trades as diverse 
as shoe repairing, bricklaying, carpentry, cabinet making, auto mechanics, 
and airplane mechanics. The physical facilities at Dunbar are 
impressive, but more impressive is the attitude of the pupils.

The soybean seed is the most important leguminous food in the 
world. In the United States, where half of the world crop is grown, 
soybeans are processed for their edible oil. The residue from soybean 
processing goes mainly into animal feeds.   Soybeans are extensively 
processed into a remarkable number of food products in the Orient. 
American chemists, seeking to increase exports of soybeans, have 
adapted modern techniques and fermentation methods to improve their 
use in such traditional Japanese foods as tofu and miso and in tempeh 
of Indonesia. Soybean flour, grits, flakes, "milk", and curd can 
be bought in the United States.   Peanuts are the world's 
second most important legume. They are used mainly for their oil. We 
produce peanut oil, but to a much greater extent we eat the entire seed. 
Blanched peanuts, as prepared for making peanut butter or for eating 
as nuts, are roasted seeds whose seedcoats have been rubbed off.

Cereal grains, supplemented with soybeans or dry edible peas or beans, 
comprise about two-thirds or three-fourths of the diet in parts of 
Asia and Africa.   In western Europe and North America, where 
the level of economic development is higher, grains and other seed 
products furnish less than one-third of the food consumed. Rather, 
meat and potatoes, sugar, and dairy products are the main sources of 
carbohydrate, 
protein, oils, and fats. People depend less on seeds for 
foods in Australia, New Zealand, and Argentina, where extensive grazing 
lands support sheep or cattle, and the consumption of meat is high.

Feeds for livestock took about one-sixth of the world's 
cereal crop in 1957-1958. Most of the grain is fed to swine and dairy 
cows and lesser amounts to beef cattle and poultry. About 90 percent 
of the corn used in the United States is fed to animals. The rest 
is used for human food and industrial products. More than half of the 
sorghum and barley seeds we produce and most of the byproducts of the 
milling of cereals and the crushing of oilseeds are fed to livestock.

More than 200 million tons of seeds and seed products are fed 
to livestock annually in the United States.   The efficiency 
with which animals convert grains and forages to meat has risen steadily 
in the United States since the 1930's and has paralleled the increased 
feeding of the cake and meal that are a byproduct when seeds 
are processed for oil. ##

THE DEMAND for food is so great in 
the world that little arable land can be given over to growing the nonfood 
crops. Seeds grown for industrial uses hold a relatively minor 
position.   Chief among the seed crops grown primarily for industrial 
uses are the oil-bearing seeds- flax, castor, tung (nuts from 
the China wood-oil tree), perilla (from an Oriental mint), and oiticica 
(from a Brazilian tree).   Oils, or liquid fats, from the 
seeds of flax and tung have long been the principal constituents of paints 
and varnishes for protecting and beautifying the surfaces of wood 
and metal. These oils develop hard, smooth films when they dry and form 
resinlike substances.   The artist who paints in oil uses drying 
oils to carry the pigments and to protect his finished work for the 
ages. One of the finest of artists' oils comes from poppy seeds.

Seeds of soybean, cotton, corn, sesame, and rape yield semidrying 
oils. Some are used in paints along with drying oils. Palm oil 
protects the surfaces of steel sheets before they are plated with tin.

Castor oil, made from castorbeans, has gone out of style as a 
medicine. This nondrying oil, however, is now more in demand than ever 
before as a fine lubricant, as a constituent of fluids for hydraulically 
operated equipment, and as a source of chemicals to make plastics.

Almond oil, another nondrying oil, was once used extensively 
in perfumery to extract flower fragrances. It is still used in drugs 
and cosmetics, but it is rather scarce and sometimes is adulterated with 
oils from peach and plum seeds.   Liquid fats from all these 
oilseeds enter into the manufacture of soaps for industry and the household 
and of glycerin for such industrial uses as making explosives.

Sizable amounts of soybean, coconut, and palm kernel oil- seed 
oils that are produced primarily for food purposes- also are used 
to make soaps, detergents, and paint resins.   Solid fats from 
the seeds of the mahua tree, the shea tree, and the coconut palm are used 
to make candles in tropical countries.   Seeds are a main source 
of starch for industrial and food use in many parts of the world. 
Corn and wheat supply most of the starch in the United States, Canada, 
and Australia. In other countries where cereal grains are not 
among the principal crops of a region, starchy tubers or roots are processed 
for starch. Starch is used in the paper, textile, and food-processing 
industries and in a multitude of other manufacturing operations.

Gums were extracted from quince, psyllium (fleawort), flax, 
and locust (carob) seeds in ancient times. Today the yearly import 
into the United States of locust bean gum is more than 15 million pounds; 
of psyllium seed, more than 2.6 million. The discovery during 
the Second World War that guar gum was similar to imported locust 
gum increased its cultivation in western Asia and initiated it in the 
United States.   Water-soluble gums are used in foods and drugs 
and in the manufacture of pulp and paper as thickeners, stabilizers, 
or dispersing agents. Guar gum thickens salad dressings and stabilizes 
ice cream. Quince seed gum is the main ingredient in wave-setting 
lotions. Once regarded as an agricultural nuisance, psyllium was sold 
in the 1930's as a mechanical laxative under 117 different brands. 
Locust gum is added to pulp slurries to break up the lumps of fibers 
in making paper. ##

THE SEEDS of hard, fibrous, stony fruits, 
called nuts, provide highly concentrated foods, oils, and other materials 
of value. Most nuts consist of the richly packaged storage kernel 
and its thick, adherent, brown covering- the seedcoat.   The 
kernels of brazil nuts, cashews, coconuts, filberts, hazelnuts, hickory 
nuts, pecans, walnuts, and pine nuts are predominantly oily. Almonds 
and pistachio nuts are not so high in oil but are rich in protein. 
Chestnuts are starchy. All nut kernels are rich in protein. 
The world production of familiar seed nuts- almonds, brazil nuts, 
filberts, and the English walnuts- totals about 300 thousand tons annually.

Coconuts, the fruit of the coconut palm, have the largest 
of all known seeds and are grown in South Pacific islands as a 
crop for domestic and export markets. The oil palm of West Africa yields 
edible oil from both the flesh and the seed or kernel of its fruit. 
World production of copra, the oil-bearing flesh of the coconut, 
was a little more than 3 million tons in 1959. Exports from producing 
countries in terms of equivalent oil were a little more than 1 million 
tons, about half of which was palm kernels or oil from them and about 
half was palm oil.   Other nuts consumed in lesser quantity include 
the spicy nutmeg; the soap nut, which owes its sudsing power 
to natural saponins; the marking nut, used for ink and varnish; the 
aromatic sassafras nut of South America; and the sweet-smelling 
cumara nut, which is suited for perfumes.   A forest crop that has 
not been extensively cultivated is ivory nuts from the tagua palm. 
The so-called vegetable ivory is the hard endosperm of the egg-sized 
seed. It is used for making buttons and other small, hard objects of 
turnery. Seeds of the sago palm are used in Bermuda to make heads and 
faces of dolls sold to tourists. ##

THE COLOR AND SHAPE of 
seeds have long made them attractive for ornaments and decorations.

Since Biblical times, rosaries have been made from jobs-tears- 
the seeds of an Asiatic grass. Bead tree seeds are the necklaces 
of South Pacific islanders and the eyes of Buddha dolls in Cuba. 
Victorian ladies had a fad of stringing unusual seeds to wear as jewelry.

Handmade Christmas wreaths and trees often contain a variety 
of seeds collected during the year.   Tradition has assigned 
medicinal values to seeds because of their alkaloids, aromatic oils, 
and highly flavored components. Although science has given us more effective 
materials, preparations from anise, castorbean, colchicum, nux 
vomica, mustard, fennel, and stramonium are familiar to many for the 
relief of human ailments. Flaxseed poultices and mustard plasters still 
are used by some persons.   Peanut and sesame oils often are 
used as carriers or diluents for medicines administered by injection.

Still another 
group of seeds (sometimes tiny, dry, seed-bearing 
fruits) provide distinctive flavors and odors to foods, although the 
nutrients they supply are quite negligible. The common spices, flavorings, 
and condiments make up this group.   Each year millions of 
pounds of anise, caraway, mustard, celery, and coriander and the oils 
extracted from them are imported.   Single-seeded dry fruits used 
for flavoring include several of the carrot family, such as cumin, 
dill, fennel, and angelica. Less common seeds used in cooking and beverages 
include fenugreek (artificial maple flavor) and cardamom. White 
pepper is the ground seed of the common black pepper fruit.   Sesame 
seed, which comes from the tall pods of a plant grown in Egypt, 
Brazil, and Central America, has a toasted-nut flavor and can be 
used in almost any dish calling for almonds. It is a main flavoring for 
halvah, the candy of the Middle East. Sesame sticks, a snack dip, 
originated in the Southwest.   Beverages are made from seeds 
the world over.   Coffee is made from the roasted and ground seeds 
of the coffee tree. World production of coffee broke all previous 
records in 1959 and 1960 at more than 5 million tons. Per capita consumption 
remains around 16 pounds in the United States.   Cocoa, 
chocolate, and cocoa butter come from the ground seeds of the cacao 
tree. World production of about 1 million tons is divided primarily between 
Africa (63 percent) and South America (27 percent).   Several 
soft drinks contain extracts from kola nuts, the seed of the kola 
tree cultivated in the West Indies and South America.   Cereal 
grains have been used for centuries to prepare fermented beverages. 
The Japanese sake is wine fermented from rice grain. Arrack is 
distilled from fermented rice in India.   Beer, generally fermented 
from barley, is an old alcoholic beverage. Beer was brewed by the 
Babylonians and Egyptians more than 6 thousand years ago. Brewers 
today use corn, rice, and malted barley.   Distillers use corn, 
malt, wheat, grain sorghum, and rye in making beverage alcohol. ## 

SEED CROPS hold a prominent place in the agricultural economy 
of the United States.   The farm value of seeds produced in this 
country for all purposes, including the cereals, is nearly 10 billion 
dollars a year. Cereal grains, oilseeds, and dry beans and peas account 
for about 57 percent of the farm value of all crops raised.

The economic importance of seed crops actually is even greater, because 
additional returns are obtained from most of the corn, oats, barley, 
and sorghum- as well as the cake and meal from the processing 
of flaxseed, cottonseed, and soybeans- through conversion to poultry, 
meat, and dairy products.   Seeds furnish about 40 percent of 
the total nutrients consumed by all livestock. Hay and pasture are the 
other chief sources of livestock feed.   Seeds are the essential 
raw materials for milling grain, baking, crushing oilseed, refining 
edible oil, brewing, distilling, and mixing feed.   More than 11 
thousand business establishments in the United States were based on 
cereals and oilseeds in 1954. The value of products from these industries 
was 15.8 billion dollars, of which about one-third was created 
by manufacturing processes. Not included was the value of seed oil in 
paints and varnishes or the value of the coffee and chocolate industries 
that are based on imported seed or seed products.   Cereal grains 
furnish about one-fourth of the total food calories in the American 
diet and about one-third of the total nutrients consumed by all livestock 
and poultry.

To hold a herd of cattle on a new range till they felt at home 
was called "locatin'" 'em. To keep 'em scattered somewhat 
and yet herd 'em was called "loose herdin'". To hold 'em in 
a compact mass was "close herdin'". Cattle were inclined to remain 
in a territory with which they were acquainted. That became their 
"home range". Yet there were always some that moved farther and 
farther out, seekin' grass and water. These became "strays", 
the term bein' restricted to cattle, however, as hosses, under like 
circumstances, were spoken of as "stray hosses", not merely "strays".

Cattle would drift day and night in a blizzard till it 
was over. You couldn't stop 'em; you had to go with 'em or wait 
till the storm was over, and follow. Such marchin' in wholesale 
numbers was called a "drift", or "winter drift", and if the storm 
was prolonged it usually resulted in one of the tragedies of the 
range. The cowboy made a technical distinction in reference to the number 
of them animals. The single animal or a small bunch were referred 
to as "strays"; but when a large number were "bunched up" 
or "banded up", and marched away from their home range, as long as 
they stayed together the group was said to be a "drift". Drifts 
usually occurred in winter in an effort to escape the severe cold winds, 
but it could also occur in summer as the result of lack of water or 
grass because of a drought, or as an aftermath of a stampede. Drifts 
usually happened only with cattle, for hosses had 'nough sense to avoid 
'em, and to find shelter for 'emselves.   The wholesale 
death of cattle as a result of blizzards, and sometimes droughts, over 
a wide range of territory was called a "die-up". Followin' such 
an event there was usually a harvest of "fallen hides", and the 
ranchers needed skinnin' knives instead of brandin' irons. Cattle 
were said to be "potted" when "blizzard choked", that is, caught 
in a corner or a draw, or against a "drift fence" durin' a 
storm. Cattle which died from them winter storms were referred to as 
the "winter kill". When cattle in winter stopped and humped their 
backs up they were said to "bow up". This term was also used by 
the cowboy in the sense of a human showin' fight, as one cowhand was 
heard to say, "He arches his back like a mule in a hailstorm". Cattle 
drove to the northern ranges and held for two winters to mature 
'em into prime beef were said to be "double wintered".   Cattle 
brought into a range from a distance were called "immigrants". 
Them new to the country were referred to as "pilgrims". This 
word was first applied to the imported hot-blooded cattle, but later 
was more commonly used as reference to a human tenderfoot. Hereford cattle 
were often called "white faces", or "open-face cattle", 
and the old-time cowman gave the name of "hothouse stock" to them 
newly introduced cattle. Because Holstein cattle weren't a beef breed, 
they were rarely seen on a ranch, though one might be found now and 
then for the milk supply. The cowboy called this breed of cattle "magpies". 
A "cattaloe" was a hybrid offspring of buffalo and 
cattle. 
"Dry stock" denoted, regardless of age or sex, such bovines 
as were givin' no milk. A "wet herd" was a herd of cattle made 
up entirely of cows, while "wet stuff" referred to cows givin' 
milk. The cowboy's humorous name for a cow givin' milk was a "milk 
pitcher". Cows givin' no milk were knowed as "strippers". 
The terminology of the range, in speakin' of "dry stock" and 
"wet stock", was confusin' to the tenderfoot. The most common reference 
to "wet stock" was with the meanin' that such animals had 
been smuggled across the Rio Grande after bein' stolen from their 
rightful owners. The term soon became used and applied to all stolen 
animals. "Mixed herd" meant a herd of mixed sexes, while a "straight 
steer herd" was one composed entirely of steers, and when the 
cowman spoke of "mixed cattle", he meant cattle of various grades, 
ages, and sexes.   In the spring when penned cattle were turned 
out to grass, this was spoken of as "turn-out time", or "put 
to grass". "Shootin' 'em out" was gettin' cattle out of 
a corral onto the range. When a cow came out of a corral in a crouchin' 
run she was said to "come out a-stoopin'". To stir cattle 
up and get 'em heated and excited was to "mustard the cattle", and 
the act was called "ginnin' 'em 'round", or "chousin' 
'em". After a roundup the pushin' of stray cattle of outside brands 
toward their home range was called "throwin' over". 
A cow rose from the ground rear end first. By the time her hindquarters 
were in a standin' position, her knees were on the ground in a prayin' 
attitude. It was when she was in this position that the name 
"prayin' cow" was suggested to the cowboy. They were said to be 
"on their heads" when grazin'. "On the hoof" was a reference 
to live cattle and was also used in referrin' to cattle travelin' 
by trail under their own power as against goin' by rail. Shippin' 
cattle by train was called a "stock run". A general classification 
given grass-fed cattle was "grassers".   When a cowboy 
spoke of "dustin'" a cow, he meant that he throwed dust into her 
eyes. The cow, unlike a bull or steer, kept her eyes open and her 
mind on her business when chargin', and a cow "on the prod" or "on 
the peck" was feared by the cowhand more than any of his other 
charges.   The Injun's name for beef was "wohaw", and many 
of the old frontiersmen adopted it from their association with the Injun 
on the trails. The first cattle the Injuns saw under the white 
man's control were the ox teams of the early freighters. Listenin' 
with wonder at the strange words of the bullwhackers as they shouted 
"Whoa", "Haw", and "Gee", they thought them words the 
names of the animals, and began callin' cattle "wohaws". Rarely 
did a trail herd pass through the Injun country on its march north 
that it wasn't stopped to receive demand for "wohaw".   "Tailin'" 
was the throwin' of an animal by the tail in lieu of a 
rope. Any animal could when travelin' fast, be sent heels over head 
by the simple process of overtakin' the brute, seizin' its tail, 
and givin' the latter a pull to one side. This throwed the animal 
off balance, and over it'd crash onto its head and shoulders. Though 
the slightest yank was frequently capable of producin' results, many 
men assured success through a turn of the tail 'bout the saddle 
horn, supplemented sometimes, in the case of cattle, by a downward heave 
of the rider's leg upon the strainin' tail. Such tactics were 
resorted to frequently with the unmanageable longhorns, and a thorough 
"tailin'" usually knocked the breath out of a steer, and so dazed 
'im that he'd behave for the rest of the day. It required both 
a quick and swift hoss and a darin' rider. When cattle became more 
valuable, ranch owners frowned upon this practice and it was discontinued, 
at least when the boss was 'round. When the cowboy used the word 
"tailin's", he meant stragglers.   "Bull tailin'" 
was a game once pop'lar with the Mexican cowboys of Texas. From 
a pen of wild bulls one would be released, and with much yellin' a 
cowhand'd take after 'im. Seizin' the bull by the tail, he rushed 
his hoss forward and a little to one side, throwin' the bull off 
balance, and "bustin'" 'im with terrific force. Rammin' one 
horn of a downed steer into the ground to hold 'im down was called 
"peggin'".   Colors of cattle came in for their special names. 
An animal covered with splotches or spots of different colors was 
called a "brindle" or "brockle". A "lineback" was an animal 
with a stripe of different color from the rest of its body runnin' 
down its back, while a "lobo stripe" was the white, yeller, or 
brown stripe runnin' down the back, from neck to tail, a characteristic 
of many Spanish cattle. A "mealynose" was a cow or steer of 
the longhorn type, with lines and dots of a color lighter'n the rest 
of its body 'round the eyes, face, and nose. Such an animal was 
said to be "mealynosed". "Sabinas" was a Spanish word used to 
describe cattle of red and white peppered and splotched colorin'. 
The northern cowboy called all the red Mexican cattle which went up 
the trail "Sonora reds", while they called all cattle drove up from 
Mexico "yaks", because they came from the Yaqui Injun country, 
or gave 'em the name of "Mexican buckskins". Near the southern 
border, cattle of the early longhorn breed whose coloration was black 
with a lineback, with white speckles frequently appearin' on the 
sides and belly, were called "zorrillas". This word was from the 
Spanish, meanin' "polecat". "Yeller bellies" were cattle 
of Mexican breed splotched on flank and belly with yellerish color. An 
animal with distinct coloration, or other marks easily distinguished 
and remembered by the owner and his riders, was sometimes used as a 
"marker". Such an animal has frequently been the downfall of the 
rustler.   Countin' each grazin' bunch of cattle where it was 
found on the range and driftin' it back so that it didn't mix with 
the uncounted cattle was called a "range count". The countin' 
of cattle in a pasture without throwin' 'em together for the purpose 
was called a "pasture count". The counters rode through the 
pasture countin' each bunch of grazin' cattle, and drifted it back 
so that it didn't get mixed with the uncounted cattle ahead. This 
method of countin' was usually done at the request, and in the presence, 
of a representative of the bank that held the papers against the 
herd. Them notes and mortgages were spoken of as "cattle paper".

A "book count" was the sellin' of cattle by the books, 
commonly resorted to in the early days, sometimes much to the profit of 
the seller. This led to the famous sayin' in the Northwest of the 
"books won't freeze". This became a common byword durin' the 
boom days when Eastern and foreign capital were so eager to buy cattle 
interests. The origin of this sayin' was credited to a saloonkeeper 
by the name of Luke Murrin. His saloon was a meetin' place for 
influential Wyoming cattlemen, and one year durin' a severe blizzard, 
when his herd-owner customers were wearin' long faces, he said, 
"Cheer up boys, whatever happens, the books won't freeze". In 
this carefree sentence he summed up the essence of the prevailin' 
custom of buyin' by book count, and created a sayin' which has survived 
through the years. "Range delivery" meant that the buyer, after 
examinin' the seller's ranch records and considerin' his rep'tation 
for truthfulness, paid for what the seller claimed to own, 
then rode out and tried to find it.   When a cowhand said that a 
man had "good cow sense", he meant to pay 'im a high compliment. 
No matter by what name cattle were called, there was no denyin' that 
they not only saved Texas from financial ruin, but went far toward 
redeemin' from a wilderness vast territories of the Northwest. #@ 
21 @ SWINGIN' A WIDE LOOP#

THE first use of the word 
"rustler" was as a synonym for "hustler", becomin' an established 
term for any person who was active, pushin', and bustlin' in 
any enterprise. Again it was used as the title for the hoss wrangler, 
and when the order was given to go out and "rustle the hosses", 
it meant for 'im to go out and herd 'em in. Eventually herdin' 
the hosses was spoken of as "hoss rustlin'", and the wrangler was 
called the "hoss rustler". Later, the word became almost exclusively 
applied to a cow thief, startin' from the days of the maverick 
when cowhands were paid by their employers to "get out and rustle 
a few mavericks". 
IT WAS JOHN who found the lion tracks. He found them near the carcass 
of a zebra that had been killed the night before, and he circled 
once, nose to the ground, hair shooting up along his back, as it did 
when he was after lion or bear, and then he lifted his head and bayed, 
and the pack joined in, all heads high, and Jones knew it was a hot 
trail.   He stifled the Comanche yell and let John lead him 
straight toward the nearby black volcanic mountain. This mountain was 
known as The Black Reef and it rose almost perpendicularly for about 
two hundred feet, honeycombed with caves, top covered with dense scrub 
and creepers and tall grass. On the south it ended sharply as though 
the lava had been cut off there suddenly.   Kearton and Ulyate 
had started the day together while Jones followed the dogs, and Means 
and Loveless had taken another route, and now, with the discovery 
of the fresh trail still unknown to him, Ulyate reined in, in the 
shadow of the Reef and pointed. Kearton focussed his field glasses.

"That's the Colonel", he said, "But I can't see the 
dogs".   As they watched, Jones rode straight for the Reef. 
Then they picked up the smaller black specks on the plain in front 
of him. The dogs were working a trail- lion? hyena? The pack 
had made a bend to the north, swinging back toward the Reef, and Kearton 
and Ulyate could hear them faintly.   Kearton got off and 
tore up some dry grass that grew in cracks between the rocks and piled 
it in a heap and wanted to make the smoke signal that would bring Loveless 
and Means and the rest of the party.   "Not yet", cautioned 
Ulyate.   Jones came toward them fast, now, along the southern 
toe of the Reef, and the dogs could be heard plainly, Old John 
with his Grand Canyon voice outstanding above the others. There 
was Sounder, too, also a veteran of the North Rim, and Rastus and 
the Rake from a pack of English fox-hounds, and a collie from a London 
pound, and Simba, a terrier **h. A motley pack, chosen for effectiveness, 
not beauty. Jones was galloping close behind them leaning 
down, cheering them on.   "Light it"! Ulyate said, and Kearton 
touched a match to the pile of grass, blew on it and flame licked 
out. He threw green stuff on it, and a thin blue column of smoke rose.

"That will fetch the gang and tell the Colonel where we 
are".   Two quick shots sounded. Then there was a chorus of 
wild barking and baying. Then the heavy roar of a lion.   Kearton 
and Ulyate looked at each other and began to gallop toward the sound. 
It came from the top of the Reef not half a mile away. At the 
base of the rocky hillside, they left their horses and climbed on foot. 
The route was choked with rugged lava-rocks, creepers and bushes, so 
thickly overgrown that when Kearton lost sight of Ulyate and called, 
Ulyate answered from ten feet away. Nice country to meet a lion in 
face to face. Ulyate and Kearton climbed on toward the sound of the 
barking of the dogs and the sporadic roaring of the lion, till they 
came, out of breath, to the crest, and peering through the branches of 
a bush, this is what Ulyate saw: Jones who had apparently (and actually 
had) ridden up the nearly impassable hillside, sitting calmly on 
his horse within forty feet of a full-grown young lioness, who was crouched 
on a flat rock and seemed just about to charge him, while the 
dogs whirled around her.   Ulyate drew back with a start, and put 
finger to lips, almost afraid to move or whisper lest it set her 
off, "The dogs have got her bayed **h. She's just the other side 
of that bush"! And when they had drawn back a step he added: 
"Jones is sitting on his horse right in front of her. Why she doesn't 
charge him, I don't know. And he hasn't even got a knife on 
him. He couldn't get away from her in this kind of ground **h. Careful, 
don't disturb her". ##

Jones had been about a hundred 
and fifty feet from her when he first broke through to the top of the 
Reef. She was standing on a flat rock three feet above ground and when 
she saw him she rose to full height and roared, opening her mouth wide, 
lashing her tail, and stamping at the rock with both forefeet in 
irritation, as much as to say: "How dare you disturb me in my sacred 
precinct"?   Intuition told him, however, that she was tired 
and winded from the run up the Reef and would not charge, yet. He 
moved forward to within thirty-five feet of her, being careful, because 
he knew the female is less predictable than the male. (In the graveyard 
at Nairobi he had been shown the graves of thirty-four big game 
hunters killed hunting the animals he was attempting to lasso. 
Of the thirty-four, seventeen had been killed by lions, and eleven out 
of the seventeen by lionesses.) She snarled terribly but intuition 
told 
him, again, that she was bluffing, and he could see that half her 
attention was distracted by the dogs. He threw the lasso. It was falling 
over her head when a branch of a bush caught it and it fell in front 
of her on the rock. Even then, if she took one step forward he could 
catch her. But John nipped her rear end- one lion's rear end 
was as good as another to John, Africa, Arizona no matter- and she 
changed ends and took a swipe at John, but he ducked back.   Jones 
then recoiled his rope and threw again, this time hitting her on 
the back but failing to encircle her. She whirled and faced him, roaring 
terribly, and Ulyate, watching through the leaves, could not understand 
why she did not charge and obliterate him, because he wouldn't 
have much of a chance of getting away, in that thick growth, but she 
seemed just a trace uncertain; while Jones, on the other hand, appeared 
perfectly confident and Ulyate decided perhaps that was the answer.

From the lioness' point of view, this strange creature 
on the back of another creature, lashing out with its long thin paw, 
very likely appeared as something she could not at first cope with. But 
now she sank lower to the rock. Her roar changed to a growl. Her 
tail 
no longer lashed. Although she appeared more subdued and defeated, 
Jones knew she was growing more dangerous. She was rested and could 
mount a charge. Just the tip of her tail was moving as she crouched, 
and she was treading lightly up and down with her hind feet. 
At this moment, Loveless and Means arrived, crashing through the undergrowth 
with their horses, and distracted her, and she ran off a short 
distance and jumped into a crevice between two rocks. The dogs followed 
her and she killed three and badly wounded Old John.   "We've 
got to get her out of there"! Jones yelled, "or she'll 
kill 'em all. Bring me the firecrackers".   For such an 
emergency he had included Fourth-of-July cannon crackers as part of 
their equipment. Lighting one he pitched it into the crevice, and the 
lioness left off mauling the dogs and departed.   "Ain't she 
a beauty, though"? called out Means as she ran.   "Don't 
you go a step nearer her than I do", Jones warned, "and if 
you do, go at a run so you'll have momentum"!   For two hours 
they drove her from one strong point to another along the side of 
the Reef, trying to maneuver her onto the plain where they could get 
a good throw. But she clung to the rocks and brush, and the day wore 
away. It was hot. The dogs were tired. The men were tired too. It 
was the story of the rhinoceros fight all over again. And the sun was 
beginning to go down. If dark came they would lose her.   "I'll 
get a pole", Jones said finally, "and I'll poke a noose 
over her 
head"!   At this moment she was crouched in a cave-like 
aperture halfway down the Reef. Ulyate made no comment but his face 
showed what he thought of poking ropes over lions' heads with poles, 
and of course these were the lions of fifty years ago, not the gentler 
ones of today, and this one was angry, with good reason. Loveless, 
too, objected. "It won't work, Colonel".   "Just the 
same we'll try it".   But without waiting for them to try it, 
she scattered the dogs and shot down the Reef and out across the plain.

John led the chase after her and the other dogs strung out 
behind, many of them trailing blood. John himself was bruised and 
clawed from head to tail, but he was in this fight to the finish, running 
almost as strongly now as in the morning.   She took refuge 
on a tongue of land extending into a gully, crouched at the base of a 
thorn tree, and waited for them to come up. She had chosen the spot well. 
With the gully on three sides, she could be approached only along 
the tongue of land. "Careful, now", Jones warned.   Means 
tried her first. Very slowly he maneuvered his rawboned bay gelding, 
edging closer, watching for a chance to throw, but ready to spin and 
run, rope whining about his head, horse edging tensely under him, but 
the gelding was obedient and responded and was not paralyzed by the close 
proximity of the lion. They tell you horses go crazy at the sight 
or smell of a bear or a lion, but these didn't.   Means edged 
closer. She snarled warningly. Means spit and edged on. Again she 
snarled, and again he edged. The pony was sidewise to her. With a whirling 
jump, it could get into gear **h. However nothing on four legs 
was supposed to be faster than a lion over a short distance, unless 
it was a cheetah.   She charged. Means spun and spurred. For thirty 
yards she gained rapidly. She was closing and within one more bound 
would have been able to reach the rear end of the bay, but- and 
here Jones and Loveless and Ulyate were holding breath for all they 
were worth- she never quite caught up that last bound. Means held 
steady one jump ahead of her. Then gradually he began to pull away. 
A Western cowpony had outrun an African lion, from a standing start. 
Photos showed later that she'd been about six feet from Means **h. 
Of course the factor of head start made all the difference. How much 
head start? No one knew exactly. That was the whole question. 
Enough, was the answer.   The lioness quickly changed front, when 
she saw she couldn't catch Means, and made for Jones. As she had 
done with Means, she gained rapidly at first, but then Baldy began 
to draw away. Somewhere in the few scant yards of head start was the 
determining point.   When Jones too drew away, she returned to 
a thorn bush in the neck of land running into the gully, crouched low 
and waited as before. This new position, however, gave the ropers a 
better chance. There was room to make a quick dash past the bush and 
throw as you went. So: Means edged around on the north side of her, 
Jones moved in from the south. Tossing his rope and shouting he attracted 
her attention. He succeeded almost too well, because once she 
rose as if to charge, and he half wheeled his horse- he was within 
fifty feet- but she sank back.   From behind her Means shot 
forward at a run. Kearton began shouting, "Wait, wait- the camera's 
jammed"! But Means kept on. He raced by within twenty feet 
of her, roped her around the neck, but a lioness' neck is short and 
thick and with a quick twist she slipped the noose off. 
The missionary obligation to proclaim the gospel to all the world was 
once left to zealous individuals and voluntary societies. But the time 
came when a church that had no part in the missionary movement was 
looked upon as deficient in its essential life. The Christian education 
of children, too, was once hardly more than a sideshow, but the day 
came when a congregation that did not assume full oversight of a church 
school was thought of as failing in its duty.   The most serious 
weakness of the ecumenical movement today is that it is generally 
regarded as the responsibility of a few national leaders in each denomination 
and a few interdenominational executives. Most pastors and laymen, 
even though they believe it to be important, assume that the ecumenical 
movement lies outside the province of their parishes. They may 
even dismiss it from their minds as something that concerns only the 
"ecclesiastical Rover Boys", as someone has dubbed them, who like 
to go to national and international assemblies, and have expense accounts 
that permit them to do so.   As long as this point of view 
prevails, the ecumenical movement will be lame and halt. The next 
stage ahead is that of making it thoroughly at home in the local community. 
Progress will take place far less through what is done in any 
"summit conference" of the National Council or the World Council, 
or even in offices of the denominational boards, than through what 
happens in the communities where Christian people live together as neighbors. 
The front line of advance is where witnessing and worshiping 
congregations of different traditions exist side by side. Until they 
see the ecumenical movement in terms of the difference it makes in their 
own attitudes, programs, and relationships, it will have an inevitable 
aspect of unreality. As things now stand, there is a grievous disparity 
between the unity in Christ which we profess in ecumenical meetings 
and the complacent separateness of most congregations on any Main 
Street in the nation. 

#THE ECUMENICAL CONGREGATION#

The crux 
of ecumenical advance is an even more personalized matter than the relation 
between congregations in the same community. The decisive question 
is what happens <within> each congregation and, finally, in the 
minds and hearts of the individual members. It is here that the local 
and ecumenical must meet. It is here that the ecumenical must become 
local and the local become ecumenical.   It has become almost 
trite to say that the ecumenical movement must be "carried down to the 
grass roots". This way of describing the matter is unfortunate. 
It implies two misconceptions. One is that whatever is ecumenical has 
to do with some over-all organization at "the top" and needs only 
to be understood at the so-called "lower levels". The truth, however, 
is that the ecumenical church <is> just the local church in its 
own true character as an integral unit of the whole People of God 
throughout the world. The other misconception is that our ecumenical 
problems will be solved if only the knowledge of the church in its world-wide 
extension and its interdenominational connections, now comprehended 
by many national leaders, can be communicated to all congregations. 
However needed this may be, the fundamental problem is not information 
but active commitment to the total mission of the church of Christ 
in the world.   The basic unit in the church, of whatever denominational 
polity, is always the congregation. It is hardly possible 
to emphasize this too much. Most people do not realize that the congregation, 
as a gathered fellowship meeting regularly face to face, personally 
sharing in a common experience and expressing that experience 
in daily relationships with one another, is unique. The idea that it 
is a feature of all religions is entirely mistaken. The Jewish synagogue 
affords a parallel to the Christian congregation, but Hinduism, 
Buddhism, Islam, Confucianism, Taoism, Shintoism, although they 
have sacred scriptures, priests, spiritual disciplines, and places of 
prayer, do not have a congregation as a local household of faith and 
love. Their characteristic experience is that of the individual at an 
altar or a shrine rather than that of a continuing social group with 
a distinctive kind of fellowship.   How far the fellowship in most 
local churches falls below what the New Testament means by <koinonia!> 
What is now called Christian fellowship is often little more 
than the social chumminess of having a gracious time with the kind 
of people one likes. The <koinonia> of Acts and of the Epistles 
means sharing in a common relation to Christ. It is an experience of 
a new depth of community derived from an awareness of the corporate 
indwelling of Christ in His people. As Dietrich Bonho^ffer puts 
it, "Our community with one another consists solely in what Christ 
has done to both of us". This may mean having fellowship in the church 
with people with whom, on the level of merely human agreeableness, 
we might prefer not to have any association at all. There is a vast 
difference between the community of reconciliation which the New Testament 
describes and the community of congeniality found in the average 
church building.   Whenever a congregation really sees itself 
as a unit in the universal Church, in vital relation with the whole 
Body of Christ and participating in His mission to the world, a necessary 
foundation-stone of the ecumenical movement has been laid. The 
antithesis of the ecumenical and the local then no longer exists. The 
local and the ecumenical are one.   Of course, the perspective 
of those who are dealing directly with the world-wide problems of the 
People of God will always be different from the perspective of those 
who are dealing with the nearby problems of particular persons in a 
particular place. Each viewpoint is valid if it is organically related 
to the other. Neither is adequate if it stands alone. Our difficulty 
arises when either viewpoint shuts out the other. And this is what 
all too often happens. 

#DIVERGENT PERSPECTIVES#

A little parable 
illustrative of this truth is afforded by an incident related by Professor 
Bela Vasady at the end of the Second World War. With great 
difficulty he made his way from his native Hungary to Geneva to renew 
his contacts as a member of the Provisional Committee for the World 
Council of Churches. When he had the mishap of breaking his spectacles, 
his ecumenical colleagues insisted on providing him with new 
ones. They were bifocals. He often spoke of them as his "ecumenical" 
glasses and used them as a symbol of the kind of vision that is 
required in the church. It is, he said, a bifocal vision, which can 
see both the near-at-hand and the distant and keep a Christian in right 
relation to both.   As things stand now, the local and the ecumenical 
tend to compete with each other. On the one hand, there are 
ecumenists who are so stirred by the crises of the church in its encounter 
with the world at large that they have no eyes for what the church 
is doing in their own town. They do not escape the pitfall into which 
Charles Dickens pictured Mrs& Jellyby as falling. Her concern 
for the natives of Borrioboola-Gha was so intense that she quite 
forgot and neglected her son Peepy! Likewise, the ecumenist may become 
so absorbed in the conflict of the church with the totalitarian 
state in East Germany, the precarious situation of the church in revolutionary 
China, and the anguish of the church over apartheid in South 
Africa that he loses close contact with the parish church in its 
unspectacular but indispensable ministry of worship, pastoral service 
and counseling, and Christian nurture for a face-to-face group of individuals.

On the other hand, many a pastor is so absorbed in ministering 
to the intimate, personal needs of individuals in his congregation 
that he does little or nothing to lead them into a sense of social 
responsibility and world mission. As a result, they go on thinking 
of the church, with introverted and self-centered satisfaction, only 
in connection with the way in which it serves them and their families. 
It would hardly be an exaggeration to say that ninety per cent of 
the energy of most churches- whether in terms of finance or spiritual 
concern- is poured into the private and domestic interests of the 
members. The parish lives for itself rather than for the community or 
the world.   The gap between the ecumenical perspective and the 
parish perspective appears most starkly in a church in any of our comfortable 
suburbs. It is eminently successful according to all conventional 
standards. It is growing in numbers. Its people are agreeable 
friends. It has a beautiful edifice. Its preaching and its music give 
refreshment of spirit to men and women living under heavy strain. It 
provides pastoral care for the sick and troubled. It helps children 
grow up with at least a nodding acquaintance with the Bible. It draws 
young people into the circle of those who continue the life of the 
church from generation to generation. And it is easy for the ecumenical 
enthusiast to lose sight of how basic all this is.   But what 
is this church doing to help its members understand their roles as Christians 
in the world? All too often its conception of parish ministry 
and pastoral care includes no responsibility for them in their relation 
to issues of the most desperate urgency for the life of mankind. 
It is not stirring them to confront the racial tensions of today with 
the mind of Christ. It is not helping them face the moral crisis 
involved in the use of nuclear energy. It is not making them sensitive 
to the sub-Christian level of much of our economic and industrial 
life. It is raising no disturbing question as to what Christian stewardship 
means for the relationship of the richest nation in the world 
to economically underdeveloped peoples. It is not developing an awareness 
of the new kind of missionary strategy that is called for as young 
churches emerge in Asia and Africa.   To put it bluntly, many 
a local church is giving its members only what they consciously want. 
It is not disturbing them by thoughts of their Christian responsibility 
in relation to the world. We shall not make a decisive advance 
in the ecumenical movement until such a church begins to see itself not 
merely as a haven of comfort and peace but as a base of Christian witness 
and mission to the world.   There is a humorous but revealing 
story about a rancher who owned a large slice of Texas and who wanted 
to have on it everything that was necessary for a completely pleasant 
community. He built a school and a library, then a recreation center 
and an inn. Desiring to fill the only remaining lack, he selected 
the best site on the ranch for a chapel and spared no expense in erecting 
it. A visitor to the beautiful little building inquired, "Do 
you belong to this church, Mr& Rancher"? "Why, no, ma'am", 
he replied, "this church belongs to me"! The story reflects 
the way too many people feel. As long as the congregation regards 
the church as "our" church, or the minister thinks of it as "my" 
church, just so long the ecumenical movement will make no significant 
advance. There must first be a deeper sense that the church belongs 
not to us but to Christ, and that it is His purpose, not our own interests 
and preferences, that determines what it is to be and do. 

#LOCAL 
EMBODIMENT OF THE WHOLE#

A local church which conceives its function 
to be entirely that of ministering to the conscious desires and 
concerns of its members tends to look on everything ecumenical as an 
extra, not as a normal aspect of its own life as a church. It would 
doubtless be greatly surprised to be told that in failing to be ecumenical 
it is really failing to be the Church of Christ.   Yet the 
truth, according to the New Testament, is that every local church 
has its existence only by being the embodiment of the whole church in 
that particular place. 
Yet a crowd came out to see some fresh kids from the city try to match 
the boys from the neighboring farms; and buggies and wagons and chugging 
Fords kept gathering all morning, until the edges of the field 
were packed thick and small boys kept scampering out on the playing field 
to make fun of the visitors- whose pitcher was a formidable looking 
young man with the only baseball cap.   This was a bitterly 
fought game, carrying almost as much grudge as a fist fight, with no 
friendliness exhibited between the teams except the formal politeness 
that accompanied the setting forth of ground rules and agreements on balls 
that went into the crowd. Every pitch in the game brought forth 
a howl from the enraptured audience and every fly ball the visitors 
dropped (and because their right fielder was still a little fuzzy from 
drink, they dropped many) called forth yelps of derision.   At 
one point in the game when the skinny old man in suspenders who was acting 
as umpire got in the way of a thrown ball and took it painfully in 
the kidneys, he lay there unattended while players and spectators wrangled 
over whether the ball was "dead" or the base runners were 
free to score.   This was typical of such games, which were earnestly 
played to win and practically never wound up in an expression of 
good fellowship. When the visitors, after losing this game, rode along 
the village streets toward home, the youngsters who could keep abreast 
of them for a moment or two screamed triumphantly, "You bunch of 
hay-shakers! G'ahn back home! You hay-shakers"!   Baseball 
was surely the national game in those days, even though professional 
baseball may have been merely a business. Radio broadcasts had 
not begun and most devotees of baseball attended the games near home, 
in the town park or a pasture, with perhaps two or three trips to the 
city each season to see the Cubs or the Pirates or the Indians or 
the Red Sox.   Young men in school could look forward to playing 
ball for money in a dozen different places, even if they failed to 
make the major leagues. Nearly any lad with a modicum of skill might 
find a payday awaiting him in the Three ~I League, or the Pony 
League, or the Coastal Plains League, or the fast Eastern League, 
if not indeed in one of the hundreds of city leagues that abounded everywhere. 
Even a city of thirty thousand might have six baseball teams, 
sponsored by grocers and hardware merchants or department stores, 
that played two or three times a week throughout the summer, usually in 
the cool of the evening, before an earnest and partisan audience who 
did not begrudge a quarter each, or even more, to be dropped into a hat 
when the game was half over.   Babe Ruth, of course, was everyone's 
hero, and everyone knew him, even though relatively few ever 
saw him play ball. His face was always in the newspapers, sometimes 
in cartoons that seemed nearly as large as life. As the twenties grew 
older, and as radio broadcasts of baseball games began to involve more 
and more people daily in the doings of the professionals, the great 
hitters (always led by Babe Ruth) overshadowed the game so that pitchers 
were nearly of no account. Boys no longer bothered learning to 
bunt and even school kids scorned to "choke up" on a bat as Willie 
Keeler and the famous hitters of another day had done.   Other 
hitters bloomed with more or less vigor in the news and a few even dared 
to dream of matching Ruth, who was still called Jidge by all his 
friends, or Leo or Two-Head by those who dared to taunt him (Leo 
was the name of the ball player he liked the least) and who called most 
of the world "Kid". Lou Gehrig was given the nickname Buster, 
and he ran Ruth a close race in home runs. But the nickname never 
stuck and Gehrig was no match for Ruth in "color"- which is sometimes 
a polite word for delinquent behavior on and off the field. Ruth 
was a delinquent boy still, but he was in every way a great ball 
player who was out to win the game and occasionally risked a cracked bone 
to do it.   A few professional baseball players cultivated eccentricities, 
with the encouragement of the press, so that they might 
see their names in big black print, along with Daddy Browning's, 
Al Capone's, Earl Sande's, and the Prince of Wales'. One 
who, for a time, succeeded 
best and was still the sorriest of all was Charles 
Arthur Shires, who called himself, in the newspapers, Art the 
Great, or The Great Shires. It was his brag that he could beat 
everybody at anything, but especially at fighting, and he once took on 
the manager of his club and worked him over thoroughly with his fists. 
he was given to public carousing and to acting the clown on the diamond; 
and a policeman asserted he had found a pair of brass knuckles 
in Art's pocket once when he had occasion to collar the Great First 
Baseman for some forgotten reason. (This made a sportswriter named 
Pegler wonder in print if Art had worn this armament when he defeated 
his manager.) The sorry fact about this young man, who was barely 
of age when he broke into major-league baseball, was that he really 
was a better ball player than he was given credit for being- never so 
good as he claimed, and always an irritant to his associates, but a 
good steady performer when he could fight down the temptation to orate 
on his skills or cut up in public.   In his minor way Charles 
Arthur Shires was perhaps more typical of his era than Ruth was, for 
he was but one of many young men who laid waste their talents in these 
Scott Fitzgerald days for the sake of earning space in the newspapers. 
There were others who climbed flagpoles and refused to come down; 
or who ingested strange objects, like live fish; or who undertook 
to set records for remaining erect on a dance floor, with or without 
a partner; or who essayed to down full bottles of illicit gin without 
pausing for breath. One young man, exhilarated to the point of insanity 
by liquor and the excitement of the moment, performed a perfect 
swan dive out of the stands at the Yale Bowl during the Yale-Army 
football game, landed squarely on his head on the concrete ramp below, 
and died at once.   But the twenties were not all insanity and 
a striving after recognition. The business of baseball began to prosper 
along with other entertainments, and performers- thanks partly to 
George Herman Ruth's spectacular efforts each season to run his 
salary higher and higher- prospered too. While fifty years before, 
Albert Goodwill Spalding, secretary of the Chicago Ball Club of 
the National League, could write earnestly to the manager of the Buffalo 
club and request a guarantee of one hundred dollars for a baseball 
game in August, in this Golden Era a game at the Yankee Stadium 
might bring in nearly a hundred thousand dollars at the gate. And 
while less than ten years earlier the wayward Black Sox- all of them 
top performers in their positions- had toiled for stingy Charles 
Comiskey at salaries ranging from twenty-five hundred dollars to forty-five 
hundred dollars a year, stars now were asking ten thousand dollars, 
twenty thousand dollars, yes, even fifty thousand dollars a season.

The greatest team of this period was unquestionably the New 
York Yankees, bought by brewery millions and made into a ball club 
by men named Ed Barrow and Miller Huggins. Boston fans sometimes 
liked to wring some wry satisfaction out of the fact that most of the 
great 1923-27 crew were graduates of the Red Sox- sold to millionaires 
Huston and Ruppert by a man who could not deny them their most 
trifling desire. Ruth himself, still owning his farm in Massachusetts 
and an interest in the Massachusetts cigar business that printed 
his round boyish face on the wrappers, had led the parade down from Fenway 
Park, followed by pitchers Carl Mays, Leslie "Joe" Bush, 
Waite Hoyt, Herb Pennock, and Sam Jones, catcher Wally Schang, 
third baseman Joe Dugan (who completed the "playboy trio" of 
Ruth, Dugan, and Hoyt), and shortstop Everett Scott. By 1926, when 
the mighty Yanks were at their mightiest, only a few of these were 
left but they still shone brightest, even beside able and agile rookies 
like Tony Lazzeri (who managed never to have one of his epileptic 
fits on the field), Mark Koenig, Lou Gehrig, George Pipgras, and 
gray-thatched Earl Combs. The deeds of this team, through two seasons 
and in the two World's Series that followed, have been written 
and talked about until hardly a word is left to be said. But there 
is one small episode that a few New York fans who happened to sit in 
the cheap seats for one World's Series game in 1926 like best to 
recall. Babe Ruth, as he always did in the Stadium, played right field 
to avoid having the sun in his eyes, and Tommy Thevenow, a rather 
mediocre hitter who played shortstop for the St& Louis Cardinals, 
knocked a ball with all his might into the sharp angle formed by the 
permanent stands and the wooden bleachers, where Ruth could not reach 
it. The ball lay there, shining white on the grass in view of nearly 
every fan in the park while Ruth, red-necked with frustration, charged 
about the small patch of ground screaming, "Where's the -ing 
ball"? But, as he snarled unhappily when the inning was over, 
"not a sonofabitch in the place would tell me", so little Tommy 
ran all the way home.   The ordinary man and woman, however, saw 
little of the great professional games of those Golden Days, or of 
any other sporting event for that matter. Promoters always hastened 
to place their choice tickets in the hands of the wealthy speculators, 
and only the man who knew the man who knew the fellow who had an in 
with the guy at the box office ever came up with a good seat for a contest 
of any importance. Radio broadcasts, however- now that even plain 
people could afford "loud speakers" on their sets- held old 
fans to the major-league races and attracted new ones, chiefly women, 
who through what the philosopher called the ineluctable modality of audition, 
became first inured, then attracted, then addicted to the long 
afternoon recitals of the doings in some distant baseball park.

In some cities games were broadcast throughout the week and then on 
weekends the announcer was silenced, and fans must needs drive to the 
city from all the broadcast area to discover how their heroes were faring. 
This had a pleasant effect upon the Sunday gate receipts as well 
as upon the intake of the rail and bus companies, some of which began 
to offer special excursion rates, including seats at the park, just 
as the trolley and ferry companies had when baseball was new. 
While women had always attended ball games in small numbers (it was the 
part of a "dead game sport" in the early years of the twentieth 
century to be taken out to the ball park and to root, root, root for 
the home team), they had often sat in patient martyrdom, unable even to 
read the scoreboard, which sometimes seemed to indicate that one 
team 
led another by a score of three hundred and eighty to one hundred and 
fifty-one. The questions women asked at baseball games were standard 
grist for amateur comedy, as were the doings of women automobile drivers; 
for every grown man (except a few who were always suspected of 
being shy on virility) knew at least the fundamentals of baseball, just 
as every male American in this era liked to imagine (or pretend) that 
he could fight with his fists. And women were not expected to know 
that the pitcher was trying <not> to let the batter hit the ball.

Radio, however, so increased the interest of women in the game 
that it was hardly necessary even to have "Ladies' Days" any longer 
to enable men to get to the ball park without interference at home. 
Women actually began to appear unaccompanied in the stands, where 
they still occasionally ran the risk of coming home with a tobacco-juice 
stain on a clean skirt or a new curse word tingling their ears.

The radio broadcasts themselves were often so patiently informative, 
despite the baseball jargon, that girls and women could begin to 
store up in their minds the same sort of random and meaningless statistics 
that small boys had long learned better than they ever did their 
lessons in school. 
This conclusion is dependent on the assumption that traditional sex mores 
will continue to sanction both premarital chastity as the "ideal", 
and the double standard holding females primarily responsible for 
preserving the ideal.   Our discussion of this involves using 
Erik Erikson's schema of "identity <vs&> identity diffusion" 
as a conceptual tool in superimposing a few common denominators onto 
the diverse personality and family configurations of the unwed mothers 
from whose case histories we quoted earlier. Our discussion does not 
utilize all the identity crises postulated by Erikson, but is intended 
to demonstrate the utility of his theoretical schema for studying 
unwed mothers. We hope thereby to emphasize that, from a psychological 
standpoint, the effectual prevention of illegitimacy is a continuous 
long-term process involving the socialization of the female from infancy 
through adolescence.   Hypothesizing a series of developmental 
stages that begin in the individual's infancy and end in his old 
age, Erikson has indicated that the adolescent is faced with a series 
of identity crises. The successful and positive resolution of these 
crises during adolescence involves an epigenetic principle- during 
adolescence, the individual's positive resolutions in each area of identity 
crisis depend, to a considerable degree, on his already having 
resolved preliminary and preparatory identity crises during his infancy, 
childhood, and early adolescence. Within Erikson's schema, the 
adolescent's delinquent behavior- in this case, her unwed motherhood- 
reflects her "identity diffusion", or her inability to resolve 
these various identity crises positively.   <The adolescent 
experiences identity crises in terms of time perspective vs& time diffusion>. 
Time perspective- the ability to plan for the future and 
to postpone gratifying immediate wants in order to achieve long-range 
objectives- is more easily developed if, from infancy on, the individual 
has been able to rely on and trust people and the world in which 
she lives. Erikson has noted that, unless this trust developed early, 
the time ambivalence experienced, in varying degree and temporarily, 
by all adolescents (as a result of their remembering the more immediate 
gratification of wants during childhood, while not yet having fully 
accepted the long-range planning required by adulthood) may develop 
into a more permanent sense of time diffusion. Experience of this time 
diffusion ranges from a sense of utter apathy to a feeling of desperate 
urgency to act immediately.   These polar extremes in time 
diffusion were indicated in some of the comments by unwed mothers reported 
in earlier chapters. Some of these mothers, apparently feeling a 
desperate urgency, made, on the spur of the moment, commitments, in love 
and sex, that would have life-long consequences. Others displayed 
utter apathy and indifference to any decision about the past or the future. 
For many of these unwed mothers, the data on their family life 
and early childhood experiences revealed several indications and sources 
of their 
basic mistrust of their parents in particular and of the world in 
general.   However, as Erickson has noted, the individual's 
failure to develop preliminary identities during infancy and childhood 
need not be irreversibly deterministic with respect to a given area of 
identity diffusion in his (or her) adolescence. And, as shown in Chapter 
/6,, some ~SNP females originally developed such trust only 
during their adolescence, through the aid of, and their identification 
with, alter-parents. In the specific case of time diffusion, we 
must emphasize the significance of the earlier development of mistrust 
<when it is combined with> the inevitable time crisis experienced by 
most (if not all) adolescents in our society, and with the failure of 
the adolescent period to provide opportunities for developing trust.

<The adolescent experiences two closely related crises: self-certainty 
vs& an identity consciousness; and role-experimentation 
vs& negative identity>. A sense of self-certainty and the freedom 
to experiment with different roles, or confidence in one's own unique 
behavior as an alternative to peer-group conformity, is more easily 
developed during adolescence if, during early childhood, the individual 
was permitted to exercise initiative and encouraged to develop some 
autonomy.   However, if the child has been constantly surrounded, 
during nursery and early school age, by peer groups; inculcated 
with the primacy of group acceptance and group standards; and allowed 
little initiative in early play and work patterns- then in adolescence 
her normal degree of vanity, sensitivity, and preoccupation with 
whether others find her appearance and behavior acceptable, will be compounded. 
Her ostensible indifference to and rebellion against suggestions 
and criticisms by anyone except peer friends during adolescence 
are the manifestations, in her adolescence, of her having been indoctrinated 
in childhood to feel shame, if not guilt, for failing to behave 
in a manner acceptable to, and judged by, the performance of her nursery- 
and elementary-school peer friends. To be different is to invite 
shame and doubt; and it is better to be shamed and criticized by one's 
parents, who already consider one different and difficult to understand, 
than by one's peers, who are also experiencing a similar groping 
for and denial of adult status.   The attitudes of some unwed 
mothers quoted in Chapter /2,, revealed both considerable preoccupation 
with being accepted by others and a marked absence of self-certainty. 
Many appeared to regard their sexual behavior as a justifiable 
means of gaining acceptance from and identification with others; but 
very few seemed aware that such acceptance and identification need 
to be supplemented with more enduring and stable identification of and 
with one's self.   <Another identity crisis confronting the 
adolescent involves anticipation of achievement vs& work-paralysis>. 
The adolescent's capacity to anticipate achievement and to exercise 
the self-discipline necessary to complete tasks successfully depends 
on the degree to which he or she developed autonomy, initiative, and 
self-discipline during childhood. The developmental process involves 
the individual's progressively experiencing a sense of dignity and achievement 
resulting from having completed tasks, having kept commitments, 
and having created something (however small or simple- even a doll 
dress of one's own design rather than in the design "it ought 
to be"). These childhood experiences are sources of the self-certainty 
that the adolescent needs, for experimenting with many roles, and 
for the <freedom to fail sometimes> in the process of exploring and 
discovering her skills and abilities.   If she has not had such 
experiences, the female's normal adolescent degree of indecision will 
be compounded. She may well be incapacitated by it when she is confronted 
with present and future alternatives- e&g&, whether to prepare 
primarily for a career or for the role of a homemaker; whether 
to stay financially dependent on her parents or help support herself 
while attending school; whether to pursue a college education or a 
job after high school; and whether to attend this or that college and 
to follow this or that course of study. Erikson has noted that, as 
this indecision mounts, it may result in a "paralysis of workmanship". 
This paralysis may be expressed in the female's starting- and 
never completing- many jobs, tasks, and courses of study; and in 
the fact that she bases her decisions about work, college, carreer, and 
studies on what others are doing, rather than on her own sense of identity 
with given skills, abilities, likes, and dislikes. The absence, 
during her childhood and early adolescence, of experiences in developing 
the self-discipline to complete tasks within her ability- experiences 
that would have been subsequent sources of anticipation of achievement- 
and her lack of childhood opportunities to practice autonomy 
and initiative in play and expression, both tend in her adolescence 
to deprive her of the freedoms to role-experiment and to fail occasionally 
in experimenting.   The comments made by some unwed mothers 
(quoted in Chapter /2,) reflect this paralysis of workmanship. They 
attended school and selected courses primarily on the basis of decisions 
others made; they accepted a job primarily because it was available, 
convenient, and paid reasonably. These things both express and, 
at the same time, continue contributing to, their identity diffusion 
in an area that could have become a source of developing dignity and 
self-certainty. As their identity diffusion increased, they became more 
susceptible to sporadic diversions in love and sexual affairs. These 
affairs temporarily relieved the monotony of school or work activities 
containing no anticipation of achievement and joy of craftsmanship, 
no sense of dignity derived from a job well done.   Childhood 
experiences in learning work and self-discipline habits within a context 
of developing autonomy and initiative have considerable significance 
for the prevention of illegitimacy. The excerpts from case histories 
presented above confirm this significance, though through different 
facets of experience. For example, some unwed mothers had had no work 
experiences, household chores, and responsibilities during childhood 
and early adolescence; they subsequently occupied their leisure hours 
in searching for something exciting and diverting. Sex was both. On 
the other hand, some unwed mothers had had so much work and responsibility 
imposed on them at an early age, and had thus had so little freedom 
or opportunity to develop autonomy and initiative, that their work 
and responsibilities became dull and unrewarding burdens- to be escaped 
and rebelled against through fun and experimentation with forbidden 
sexual behavior.   <The adolescent also faces the identity 
crisis that Erikson has termed ideological polarization vs& diffusion 
of ideals>. In discussing the ways this crisis is germane to consderations 
for the prevention of illegitimacy, we shall again superimpose 
Erikson's concept on our data.   Adolescents have a much-discussed 
tendency to polarize ideas and values, to perceive things as 
"either-or", black or white- nuances of meaning are relatively 
unimportant. This tendency is, perhaps, most clearly revealed in the 
literature on religious conversions and experiences of adolescents. Erikson 
has postulated that such ideological polarization temporarily 
resolves their search for something stable and definite in the rapidly 
changing and fluctuating no-man's-land between childhood and adulthood. 
It provides identification- with an idea, a value, a cause that 
cuts through, or even transcends, the multiple and ambivalent identities 
of their passage from child to adult, and permits their forceful 
and overt expression of emotion.   The positive development, during 
adolescence, of this capacity to think and to feel strongly and with 
increasing independence, and to identify overtly either with or against 
given ideas, values, and practices, depends to a considerable degree 
on both previous and present opportunities for developing autonomy, 
initiative, and self-certainty. Most adolescents have some ideological 
diffusion at various developmental stages, as they experience a proliferation 
of ideas and values. The diffusion is most pronounced and 
most likely to become fixed, however, in those who have had no or very 
minimal opportunities to develop the autonomy and initiative that could 
have been directed into constructive expression and so served as sources 
of developing self-certainty.   A pronounced ideological 
diffusion- i&e&, inability to <identify independently> with given 
ideas and value systems- is reflected in many ways. For example, 
it is evinced by the adolescent (or adult) whose beliefs and actions 
represent primarily his rebellion and reaction again the ideas and behavior 
patterns of others, rather than his inner conviction and choice. 
It is mirrored by the individual Willie Lohmans, whose ideas and 
behavior patterns are so dependent and relativistic that they always coincide 
with those of the individual or group present and most important 
at the moment. In another sense, it is represented in the arguments 
of the "true believers" who seek to disprove the validity of all 
other beliefs and ideas in order to retain confidence in theirs.

The case histories provide some interesting illustrations of ideological 
diffusion, embodied in the unwed mother's inability to <identify 
independently> with a given value system or behavior pattern, and 
her subsequent disinclination to assume any individual responsibility 
for her sexual behavior. For example, the unwed mothers expressed 
their frustration with males who did not indicate more explicitly "what 
it is they really want from a girl so one can act accordingly". 
They were disappointed by the physical and emotional hurt of premarital 
sexual intercourse. They condemned the movie script writers for implying 
that sex was enjoyable and exhilarating. They criticized parents 
for never having emphasized traditional concepts of right and wrong; 
and they censured parents who "never disciplined and were too permissive" 
or who "never explained how easy it was to get pregnant".

In the adult world, there are a number of rather general and 
diffuse sources of ideological diffusion that further compound the 
adolescent's search for meaning during this particular identity crisis. 
For example, some contemporary writing tends to fuse the "good 
guys" and the "bad guys", to portray the weak people as heroes and 
weakness as a virtue, and to explain (or even justify) asocial behavior 
by attributing it to deterministic psychological, familial, and social 
experiences. 
In the final accounting, these would have augmented the bill for both 
sides. An estimate of one million dollars is probably not excessive.

Yet the huge amount of money consumed by the Selden litigation, 
which many regarded as wasteful, indirectly contributed to constructive 
changes in legal procedure. The duration and other circumstances 
of the Selden case made it a flagrant example of the gross abuses of 
patent infringement actions. The suit, as we have seen, came before 
the courts when patent attorneys, inventors, and laymen were making mounting 
demands for reforms in the American patent system. Chief among 
the defects they singled out were the complicated and wearisome procedures 
in equity.   In a long and angry footnote to his opinion, 
Judge Hough had lent the weight of judicial condemnation to such criticism. 
"It is a duty", said Hough, "not to let pass this opportunity 
of protesting against the methods of taking and printing testimony 
in Equity, current in this circuit (and probably others), excused 
if not justified by the rules of the Supreme Court, especially to 
be found in patent causes, and flagrantly exemplified in this litigation. 
As long as the bar prefers to adduce evidence by written deposition, 
rather than <viva voce> before an authoritative judicial officer, 
I fear that the antiquated rules will remain unchanged, and expensive 
prolixity remain the best known characteristic of Equity". Observing 
that "reforms sometimes begin with the contemplation of horrible 
examples", Hough catalogued the many abuses encouraged by existing 
procedures. He cited the elephantine dimensions of the Selden case 
record; the duplication of testimony and exhibits; the numerous 
squabbles over minor matters; the "objections stated at outrageous 
length"; and the frequent and rancorous verbal bouts, "uncalled 
for and 
unjustifiable, from the retort discourteous to the lie direct".

The fundamental difficulty of which the Selden case was 
"a striking (though not singular) example", concluded Hough, "will 
remain as long as testimony is taken without any authoritative judicial 
officer present, and responsible for the maintenance of discipline, 
and the reception or exclusion of testimony".   Not least 
among the members of the patent bar who echoed this powerful indictment 
were those who had participated in the Selden suit. William A& 
Redding asserted that if the case had been heard in open court under 
rules of evidence, the testimony would have been completed in sixty 
days instead of five years. Inventors joined lawyers in the clamor for 
reform, inevitably centering upon the Selden litigation as a "horrible 
example". Its costive deliberations were likened to those of 
the British courts of chancery mercilessly caricatured by Dickens in 
<Bleak House>.   Parker, who agreed with much of this criticism, 
did not conceal his dissatisfaction with procedural defects. But 
he felt that the Selden case was being unfairly pilloried. In a detailed 
letter published in the <Scientific American> in 1912, he 
remarked that "loose statements" about the case showed scant understanding 
of the facts. The suit, although commonly designated as a single 
action, actually embraced five cases. Parker insisted that the size 
of the record would have been drastically reduced but for an unavoidable 
duplication of testimony.   In a private communication written 
in 1911, Parker had been more to the point. Noting the complaints 
of inventors and members of the patent bar, he admitted that some 
of the strictures "were fairly well founded", but he added that under 
existing rules the courts could not consolidate testimony in a group 
of suits involving separate infringements of the same patent. The 
vast industrial interests caught up in the Selden suit, as well as the 
complex character of the automotive art, encouraged both sides to exploit 
"every possible chance" for or against the patent, said Parker. 
"This very seldom happens in this class or in other cases, and 
of course all of these matters led to a volume and an expense of the 
record beyond what ordinarily would occur".   Parker listed the 
remedies he deemed essential for reducing the cost and mass of testimony. 
The most important of these found him in agreement with Hough's 
plea for reform. Parker called for abolition of the indiscriminate 
or uncontrolled right of taking depositions before officers of the court 
who had no authority to limit testimony. The taking of depositions, 
he suggested, should be placed under a special court examiner empowered 
to compel responsive and relevant answers and to exclude immaterial 
testimony. "I am satisfied that in the Selden case had this power 
existed and this course [been] pursued, it would have shortened 
the depositions of some of the experts nearly one-half and of some of 
the other witnesses thereto more than that".   In the end Hough's 
acidulous protest, which Parker called the "now somewhat famous 
note on this 'Selden' case", did not go unheeded. In 1912 
the United States Supreme Court adopted a new set of rules of equity 
which became effective on February 1, 1913. The revised procedure 
was acclaimed as a long-overdue reform. Under the new rules, testimony 
is taken orally in open court in all cases except those of an extraordinary 
character. Other expeditious methods are designed to prevent 
prolixity, limit delays, and reduce the expense of infringement suits. 
One of the A&L&A&M& lawyers observed that if the Selden 
case had been tried under this simplified procedure, the testimony 
which filled more than a score of volumes, "at a minimum cost of $1 
a page for publication alone, could have been contained in one volume". 
While patent suits are still among the most complex and expensive 
forms of litigation, these rules have saved litigants uncounted sums 
of money. There is little doubt that they were promulgated by the Supreme 
Court as a direct result of the Selden patent suit. 

#3#

Even 
before it was formally dissolved in 1912, the A&L&A&M& 
was succeeded by the Automobile Board of Trade, the direct lineal 
ancestor of the present-day Automobile Manufacturers Association. 
The trade bodies which came in the wake of the A&L&A&M& 
were more representative, for they never adopted a policy of exclusion. 
Nevertheless, it is from the Selden organization that the industry 
inherited its institutional machinery for furthering the broader interests 
of the trade. One of the chief features of this community of interest 
is the automotive patents cross-licensing agreement, a milestone 
in the development of American industrial cooperation. Its origin 
lies in the Selden patent controversy and its aftermath.   From 
the earliest days of the motor car industry, before the A&L&A&M& 
was established, patent infringement loomed as a serious and 
vexing problem. Many patent contests were waged over automobile components 
and accessories, among them tires, detachable rims, ball bearings, 
license brackets, and electric horns. The fluidity and momentum of 
the young industry abetted a general disregard of patent claims. As 
early as 1900 a Wall Street combination acquired detail patents with 
the intention of exacting heavy tribute from automobile manufacturers. 
This scheme failed, and the following decade brought a deluge of infringement 
suits among individual manufacturers that reached its crest 
in 1912.   In this tangle of conflicting claims, the patent-sharing 
scheme adopted by the A&L&A&M& at its founding proved 
to be the best device for avoiding or mitigating the burdens of incessant 
litigation. The interchange of shop licenses for a nominal royalty 
eliminated infringement suits among the members of the A&L&A&M& 
patent pool (although it did not protect them against outside 
actions) and kept open channels for the cross-fertilization of automotive 
technology. One of the conditions of the pool was a prohibition 
upon the withholding of patent rights among A&L&A&M& members. 
Within its limits, this arrangement had the actual or potential characteristics 
of a cross-licensing agreement. Its positive features 
outweighed the fact that the pool was an adjunct of a wouldbe monopoly. 
Since the A&L&A&M& holdings embraced only about twenty-five 
per cent of motor vehicle patents, the denial of rights to independent 
companies did not retard technical progress in unlicensed sectors 
of the industry. The highly important Dyer patents on the sliding 
gear transmission were held by the A&L&A&M& pool. But Henry 
Ford used the planetary transmission in his Model ~T and earlier 
cars and, in 1905, as a precautionary measure, took out a license 
from the man who claimed to be its inventor.   For those affiliated 
with it, the A&L&A&M& pool was a haven from the infringement 
actions involving detail patents that beset the industry with mounting 
intensity after 1900. By 1910 the courts were crowded with cases, 
many of them brought by freebooters who trafficked in disputed inventions. 
It was commonplace for auto makers, parts-suppliers, and dealers 
to find warning notices and threats of infringement suits in their 
daily mail. "Purely from the business man's standpoint and without 
regard to the lawyer's view", commented a trade journal, "the 
matter of patents in the automobile and accessory trade is developing 
some phases and results that challenge thought as to how far patents 
are to become weapons of warfare in business, instead of simple beneficient 
protection devices for encouraging inventive creation".

Occasionally new enterprise was discouraged by the almost certain 
prospect of legal complications. One manufacturer who held an allegedly 
basic patent said: "I would readily put over $50,000 into the 
manufacture of the device, but it is so easy to make that we would enter 
immediately into a prolonged ordeal of patent litigation which would 
eat up all our profits". The prevailing view in the industry was 
summed up in 1912 by a group of auto makers who told a Senate committee: 
"The exceedingly unsatisfactory and uselessly expensive conditions, 
including delays surrounding legal disputes, particularly in patent 
litigation, are items of industrial burden which must be written 
large in figures of many millions of dollars of industrial waste".

By that time it was commonly agreed that patent warfare was sapping 
constructive achievement and blocking the free exchange of technical 
information. At this point Charles C& Hanch, long an advocate 
of patent peace in the industry, became chairman of the patents committee 
of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce, successor 
to the Automobile Board of Trade. Hanch was treasurer of the Nordyke 
+ Marmon Company, an Indianapolis firm which had manufactured flour-milling 
machinery before producing the Marmon car in 1904. He had 
first-hand knowledge of the patent wars which had driven about ninety 
per cent of the milling equipment makers out of business in the mid-1890's. 
Anxious to avoid a similar debacle in the motor car industry, 
Hanch went to Detroit in 1909 to enlist the support of leading 
A&L&A&M& members for an industry-wide patent-sharing plan. 
The breach created by the Selden patent doomed his proposal, but Hanch 
did not abandon his scheme.   After the demise of the A&L&A&M&, 
the time was propitious for establishing such a pool. 
Most manufacturers were now disposed to heed a proposal for the formal 
interchange of patents. "It is a much easier course to agree to 
let one another alone so far as ordinary patents are concerned", said 
a trade authority, "than to continue the costly effort of straightening 
the tangle in the courts or seeking to reform the patent system, 
which appears to be getting into deeper confusion every day".

With the other members of the patents committee- Wilfred C& Leland, 
Howard E& Coffin, Windsor T& White, and W& H& 
Vandervoort- Hanch drafted a cross-licensing agreement whose essential 
feature of royalty-free licensing was his own contribution. The 
plan was supported by Frederick P& Fish, counsel for the National 
Automobile Chamber of Commerce. It will be recalled that in his 
summation for the A&L&A&M& before Judge Hough, Fish had 
condemned patent litigation as the curse of the American industrial 
community. He was well aware that some inventors and their allies used 
their patents solely for nuisance value. "My personal view is that 
not one patented invention in ten is worth making", he later told 
a Congressional committee. The eloquent persuasions of Fish guaranteed 
the adoption of the plan by the members of the automotive trade association.

Drawn up in 1914, the cross-licensing agreement became 
effective in 1915. It remained in force for ten years and has been 
renewed at five-year intervals since 1925. 
A little farther along the road you come to the {Church of Santa 
Sabina,} called the "Pearl of the Aventine". Continue another 
hundred yards to the {Piazza of the Knights of Malta.} On the 
wall of this square there are delightful bas-reliefs of musical instruments. 
The massive {gate} of the Maltese villa affords one of 
the most extraordinary views in Rome. If you look through the keyhole, 
you will see an artistically landscaped garden with the white dome 
of St& Peter's framed in a long avenue of cropped laurel trees.

Retrace your steps a few yards on the Via di Santa Sabina and 
turn right on the {Via di S& Alessio,} a street lined with 
stately homes. Oleanders, cypress, and palms in the spacious gardens 
add much color and beauty to this attractive residential section. Turn 
left a block or so before the street ends, and then turn right down 
the Via di Santa Prisca to the {Viale Aventino.} Here you can 
pick up a taxi or public transport to return to the center of the city. 

#THE RENAISSANCE CITY#

_TO THE PIAZZA NAVONA AND PANTHEON_ 
These two walks take you through the {heart of Rome.} You will 
walk some of the narrow, old streets, hemmed in by massive <palazzi>. 
You will visit a few churches that are exceptional yet often by-passed, 
a magnificent square, the main shopping district, the Spanish 
Steps, and the lovely Pincian Gardens. By seeing such varied places, 
both interesting and beautiful, you will become aware of the many 
different civilizations Rome has lived through, and in particular, get 
a feel of Renaissance Rome. You will realize why Rome is indeed 
the Eternal City.   Start on the Via d& Teatro di Marcello 
at the foot of the {Capitoline Hill.} The majestic circular 
tiers of stone of the {Theatre of Marcellus} give you some idea 
of the huge edifice that the Emperor Augustus erected in 13 B&C&. 
Twenty-two thousand spectators used to crowd it in Roman days. 
Andrea Palladio, an Italian architect of the sixteenth century, modeled 
his designs on its Doric and Ionic columns.   Wander past 
the three superb {Columns of Apollo} by the arches of the theatre. 
The remains of the {Portico of Octavia} are now in front of 
you. Climb the steps from the theatre to the Via della Tribuna di 
Campitelli for an even better view of the Columns of Apollo. 
Turn to the right along a narrow street to the tiny Piazza Campitelli, 
then proceed along the Via dei Funari to the Piazza Mattei. Here 
is one of the loveliest fountains in Rome, the {Fontana delle 
Tartarughe} or {"Fountain of the Tortoises".} It's typical 
of Rome that in the midst of this rather poor area you should find 
such an artistic work in the center of a little square. Stand here 
for a few moments and look at this gem of a fountain with its four youths, 
each holding a tortoise and each with a foot resting on the head 
of a dolphin. The figures have been executed so skillfully that one 
senses a great feeling of life and movement.   Opposite is the 
{Palazzo Mattei,} one of Rome's oldest palaces, now the headquarters 
of the {Italo-American Association.} Go inside for a closer 
look at a Renaissance palace. In the first courtyard there are 
some fine bas-reliefs and friezes, and in the second a series of delightful 
terraced roof gardens above an ivy-covered wall. The {Palazzo 
Caetani,} still inhabited by the Caetani family, adjoins the Palazzo 
Mattei.   Keep straight ahead on the Via Falegnami, cross 
the wide Via Arenula, and you will come to the {Piazza B& 
Cairoli,} where you should look in at the {Church of San Carlo 
ai Catinari} to see the frescoes on the ceiling. Follow the colorful 
and busy Via d& Giubbonari for a hundred yards or so. Now turn 
left at the Via dell' Arco del Monte to the Piazza dei Pellegrini. 
Just a few yards to the right on the Via Capo di Ferro will 
bring you to the {Palazzo Spada,} built in 1540 and now occupied 
by the {Council of State.} Paintings by Titian, Caravaggio, 
and Rubens are on display (open 9:30-4:00).   Before you enter 
the palazzo, note Francesco Borromini's facade. The great architect 
also designed the fine interior staircase and colonnade which 
connects the two courts. The large statue on the first floor is believed 
to be the {statue of Pompey} at the base of which Julius Caesar 
was stabbed to death (if so, the statue once stood in the senate 
house). (This is shown in the afternoon and on Sunday morning.)

By tipping the porter, you can see in the courtyard Borromini's 
unusual and fascinating trick in perspective. When you stand before 
the barrel-vaulted {colonnade} you have the impression that the statue 
at 
the end is at a considerable distance, yet it is actually only a few 
feet away. The sense of perspective has been created by designing the 
length of the columns so that those at the far end of the colonnade 
are much shorter than those in front. The gardens of the <palazzo,> 
shaded by a huge magnolia tree, are most attractive. The courtyard 
is magnificently decorated.   From the Palazzo Spada you continue 
another block along the Via Capo di Ferro and Vicolo de Venti 
to the imposing {Palazzo Farnese,} begun in 1514 and considered 
by many to be the finest palace of all. Michelangelo was the most distinguished 
of several noted architects who helped design it. Today it 
is occupied by the {French Embassy.} Its lovely seventeenth-century 
ceiling frescoes, as well as the huge guards room with a tremendously 
high and beautifully carved wooden ceiling, can be seen Sundays 
(11:00-12:00 noon). Ask to see the modern tapestries of Paris 
and Rome designed by Lurcat.   Directly in front of the palace 
along the Via d& Baullari you will come to the {Campo di Fiori,} 
the famous site of executions during the turbulent days of Renaissance 
Rome. Today, by contrast it is a lively and colorful fruit, 
vegetable, and flower market. Continue on the Via d& Baullari to 
the Corso Vittorio Emanuele, then turn right for a couple of hundred 
yards to the {Church of Sant' Andrea della Valle.} As you 
approach the church on the Via d& Baullari you are passing within 
yards of the remains of the {Roman Theatre of Pompey,} near which 
is believed to have been the place where Julius Caesar was assassinated. 
The dome of the church is, outside of {St& Peter's,} 
one of the largest in Rome. Opera lovers will be interested to learn 
that this church was the scene for the first act of <Tosca>.

At this point you cross the wide Corso Vittorio Emanuele /2,, 
walk along the Corso del Rinascimento a couple of hundred yards, 
then turn left on the Via dei Canestrani to enter the splendid {Piazza 
Navona,} one of the truly glorious sights in Rome.   Your 
first impression of this elongated square with its three elegant fountains, 
its two churches that almost face each other, and its russet-colored 
buildings, is a sense of restful spaciousness- particularly 
welcome after wandering around the narrow and dark streets that you have 
followed since starting this walk.   The site of the oblong 
piazza is {Domitian's ancient stadium,} which was probably used 
for horse and chariot races. For centuries it was the location of historic 
festivals and open-air sports events. From the seventeenth to 
the nineteenth century it was a popular practice to flood the piazza in 
the summer, and the aristocrats would then ride around the inundated 
square in their carriages.   Giovanni Bernini's {"Fountain 
of the Rivers",} in the center of the piazza, is built around 
a Roman obelisk from the Circus of Maxentius which rests on grottoes 
and rocks, with four huge figures, one at each corner, denoting four 
great rivers from different continents- the Danube, the Ganges, the 
Nile, and the Plate. The eyes of the figure of the Nile are covered, 
perhaps either to symbolize the mystery of her source or to obscure 
from her sight the baroque facade of the {Church of Sant' Agnese 
in Agone}, the work of Bernini's rival, Borromini. 
In the Piazza Navona there are many delightful cafes where you can 
sit, have a drink or lunch, and watch the fountains in the square. The 
scene before you is indeed theatrical and often appears in movies about 
Rome. Perhaps a street musician will pass to add that extra touch.

Take the Via di S& Agnese in Agone, next to the church 
and opposite the center of the square, then turn right after about 
two hundred yards to reach the beautiful {Church of Santa Maria della 
Pace.} Inside you will find the lovely Sibyls painted by Raphael 
and a chapel designed by Michelangelo. The church's cloisters 
are among Donato Bramante's most beautiful creations.   Now 
return to the Piazza Navona and leave it on the opposite side by the 
Corsia Agonale; in a moment cross the Corso del Rinascimento. 
In front of you is the {Palazzo Madama,} once belonging to the 
Medici and now the {Italian Senate.} Walk by the side of the 
palazzo and after two blocks along the Via Giustiniani you will come 
to the {Piazza della Rotonda.} You are now facing the {Pantheon,} 
the largest and best-preserved building still standing from the 
days of ancient Rome.   This circular edifice, constructed by 
Agrippa in B&C& 27, was rebuilt in its present shape by the Emperor 
Hadrian. It was dedicated as a church in the seventh century. 
As you pause in the piazza by the Egyptian obelisk brought from the 
Temple of Isis, you will admire the Pantheon's impressive Corinthian 
columns.   The Pantheon's interior, still in its original 
form, is truly majestic and an architectural triumph. Its {rotunda} 
forms a perfect circle whose diameter is equal to the height from 
the floor to the ceiling. The only means of interior light is the 
twenty-nine-foot-wide aperture in the stupendous {dome.} Standing 
before the tomb of Raphael, the great genius of the Renaissance, when 
shafts of sunlight are penetrating this great Roman temple, you are 
once again reminded of the varied civilizations so characteristic of 
Rome.   As you leave the Pantheon, take the narrow street to 
the right, the Via del Seminario, a block to {Sant' Ignazio,} 
one of the most splendid baroque churches in the city. (Along the way 
there, about one hundred yards on your right, you pass a simple restaurant, 
{La Sacrestia,} where you can have the best pizza in Rome.) 
The curve of faded terra-cotta-colored houses in front of the church 
seems like a stage set. This is one of the most charming little 
squares in this part of Rome. One block along the Via de Burro (in 
front of the church) will bring you to the {Stock Exchange} in 
the old {Temple of Neptune.} A few yards farther, on the Via 
dei Bergamaschi, is the {Piazza Colonna.} The great column from 
which the square takes its name was erected by the Emperor Marcus 
Aurelius.   You are now at the {Corso,} though narrow, one 
of Rome's busiest streets. Horse races took place here in the Middle 
Ages.   If you have taken this stroll in the morning, and you have 
the time and inclination, walk to the right along the crowded Corso 
for half a dozen blocks to visit the fine private collection of paintings- 
mainly of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries- in the 
{Palazzo Doria} (open Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday, 10:00-1:00). 
Here is your opportunity to see the inside of a palazzo where 
the family still lives.   Otherwise, cross over the Corso and 
walk a block or so to the left. You will come to {Alemagna,} a 
delightful, though moderately expensive restaurant, which is particularly 
noted for its exceptional selection of ice creams and patisseries. 
Either here, or in one of the modest restaurants nearby, is just the 
place to end this first walk through the heart of Rome. _TO THE SPANISH 
STEPS_ The second walk through the heart of Rome should be taken 
after lunch, so that you will reach the {Pincian Hill} when 
the soft light of the late afternoon is at its best. 
Rare, indeed, is the Harlem citizen, from the most circumspect church 
member to the most shiftless adolescent, who does not have a long tale 
to tell of police incompetence, injustice, or brutality. I myself 
have witnessed and endured it more than once. The businessmen and racketeers 
also have a story. And so do the prostitutes. (And this is not, 
perhaps, the place to discuss Harlem's very complex attitude toward 
black policemen, nor the reasons, according to Harlem, that they 
are nearly all downtown.)   It is hard, on the other hand, to blame 
the policeman, blank, good-natured, thoughtless, and insuperably 
innocent, for being such a perfect representative of the people he serves. 
He, too, believes in good intentions and is astounded and offended 
when they are not taken for the deed. He has never, himself, done 
anything for which to be hated- which of us has?- and yet he is 
facing, daily and nightly, people who would gladly see him dead, and he 
knows it. There is no way for him not to know it: there are few things 
under heaven more unnerving than the silent, accumulating contempt 
and hatred of a people. He moves through Harlem, therefore, like 
an occupying soldier in a bitterly hostile country; which is precisely 
what, and where, he is, and is the reason he walks in twos and threes. 
And he is not the only one who knows why he is always in company: 
the people who are watching him know why, too. Any street meeting, 
sacred or secular, which he and his colleagues uneasily cover has as 
its explicit or implicit burden the cruelty and injustice of the white 
domination. And these days, of course, in terms increasingly vivid and 
jubilant, it speaks of the end of that domination. The white policeman 
standing on a Harlem street corner finds himself at the very center 
of the revolution now occurring in the world. He is not prepared 
for it- naturally, nobody is- and, what is possibly much more to the 
point, he is exposed, as few white people are, to the anguish of the 
black people around him. Even if he is gifted with the merest mustard 
grain of imagination, something must seep in. He cannot avoid observing 
that some of the children, in spite of their color, remind him of 
children he has known and loved, perhaps even of his own children. He 
knows that he certainly does not want <his> children living this 
way. He can retreat from his uneasiness in only one direction: into 
a callousness which very shortly becomes second nature. He becomes more 
callous, the population becomes more hostile, the situation grows 
more tense, and the police force is increased. One day, to everyone's 
astonishment, someone drops a match in the powder keg and everything 
blows up. Before the dust has settled or the blood congealed, editorials, 
speeches, and civil-rights commissions are loud in the land, demanding 
to know what happened. What happened is that Negroes want to 
be treated like men.   <Negroes want to be treated like men:> 
a perfectly straightforward statement, containing only seven words. 
People who have mastered Kant, Hegel, Shakespeare, Marx, Freud, 
and the Bible find this statement utterly impenetrable. The idea seems 
to threaten profound, barely conscious assumptions. A kind of panic 
paralyzes their features, as though they found themselves trapped on 
the edge of a steep place. I once tried to describe to a very well-known 
American intellectual the conditions among Negroes in the South. 
My recital disturbed him and made him indignant; and he asked me 
in perfect innocence, "Why don't all the Negroes in the South 
move North"? I tried to explain what <has> happened, unfailingly, 
whenever a significant body of Negroes move North. They do not 
escape Jim Crow: they merely encounter another, not-less-deadly 
variety. They do not move to Chicago, they move to the South Side; 
they do not move to New York, they move to Harlem. The pressure 
within the ghetto causes the ghetto walls to expand, and this expansion 
is always violent. White people hold the line as long as they can, 
and in as many ways as they can, from verbal intimidation to physical 
violence. But inevitably the border which has divided the ghetto from 
the rest of the world falls into the hands of the ghetto. The white 
people fall back bitterly before the black horde; the landlords make 
a tidy profit by raising the rent, chopping up the rooms, and all but 
dispensing with the upkeep; and what has once been a neighborhood 
turns into a "turf". This is precisely what happened when the Puerto 
Ricans arrived in their thousands- and the bitterness thus caused 
is, as I write, being fought out all up and down those streets.

Northerners indulge in an extremely dangerous luxury. They seem 
to feel that because they fought on the right side during the Civil 
War, and won, they have earned the right merely to deplore what is going 
on in the South, without taking any responsibility for it; and 
that they can ignore what is happening in Northern cities because what 
is happening in Little Rock or Birmingham is worse. Well, in the 
first place, it is not possible for anyone who has not endured both 
to know which is "worse". I know Negroes who prefer the South and 
white Southerners, because "At least there, you haven't got to 
play any guessing games"! The guessing games referred to have driven 
more than one Negro into the narcotics ward, the madhouse, or the 
river. I know another Negro, a man very dear to me, who says, with 
conviction and with truth, "The spirit of the South is the spirit 
of America". He was born in the North and did his military training 
in the South. He did not, as far as I can gather, find the South 
"worse"; he found it, if anything, all too familiar. In the 
second place, though, even if Birmingham <is> worse, no doubt 
Johannesburg, South Africa, beats it by several miles, and Buchenwald 
was one of the worst things that ever happened in the entire history 
of the world. The world has never lacked for horrifying examples; 
but I do not believe that these examples are meant to be used as justification 
for our own crimes. This perpetual justification empties 
the heart of all human feeling. The emptier our hearts become, the greater 
will be our crimes. Thirdly, the South is not merely an embarrassingly 
backward region, but a part of this country, and what happens 
there concerns every one of us.   As far as the color problem 
is concerned, there is but one great difference between the Southern 
white and the Northerner: the Southerner remembers, historically and 
in his own psyche, a kind of Eden in which he loved black people and 
they loved him. Historically, the flaming sword laid across this Eden 
is the Civil War. Personally, it is the Southerner's sexual 
coming of age, when, without any warning, unbreakable taboos are set 
up between himself and his past. Everything, thereafter, is permitted 
him except the love he remembers and has never ceased to need. The resulting, 
indescribable torment affects every Southern mind and is the 
basis of the Southern hysteria.   None of this is true for the 
Northerner. Negroes represent nothing to him personally, except, perhaps, 
the dangers of carnality. He never sees Negroes. Southerners 
see them all the time. Northerners never think about them whereas Southerners 
are never really thinking of anything else. Negroes are, 
therefore, ignored in the North and are under surveillance in the South, 
and suffer hideously in both places. Neither the Southerner nor 
the Northerner is able to look on the Negro simply as a man. It seems 
to be indispensable to the national self-esteem that the Negro be 
considered either as a kind of ward (in which case we are told how many 
Negroes, comparatively, bought Cadillacs last year and how few, 
comparatively, 
were lynched), or as a victim (in which case we are promised 
that he will never vote in our assemblies or go to school with our 
kids). They are two sides of the same coin and the South will not change- 
<cannot> change- until the North changes. The country will 
not change until it re-examines itself and discovers what it really 
means by freedom. In the meantime, generations keep being born, bitterness 
is increased by incompetence, pride, and folly, and the world shrinks 
around us.   It is a terrible, an inexorable, law that one 
cannot deny the humanity of another without diminishing one's own: 
in the face of one's victim, one sees oneself. Walk through the 
streets of Harlem and see what we, this nation, have become. 

#4. EAST 
RIVER, DOWNTOWN: POSTSCRIPT TO A LETTER FROM HARLEM#
 
 THE 
FACT THAT AMERICAN NEgroes rioted in the U&N& while Adlai 
Stevenson was addressing the Assembly shocked and baffled most white 
Americans. Stevenson's speech, and the spectacular disturbance 
in the gallery, were both touched off by the death, in Katanga, the 
day before, of Patrice Lumumba. Stevenson stated, in the course of 
his address, that the United States was "against" colonialism. God 
knows what the African nations, who hold 25 per cent of the voting 
stock in the U&N& were thinking- they may, for example, have 
been thinking of the U&S& abstention when the vote on Algerian 
freedom was before the Assembly- but I think I have a fairly accurate 
notion of what the Negroes in the gallery were thinking. I had 
intended to be there myself. It was my first reaction upon hearing 
of Lumumba's death. I was curious about the impact of this political 
assassination on Negroes in Harlem, for Lumumba had- has- captured 
the popular imagination there. I was curious to know if Lumumba's 
death, which is surely among the most sinister of recent events, 
would elicit from "our" side anything more than the usual, well-meaning 
rhetoric. And I was curious about the African reaction.

However, the chaos on my desk prevented my being in the U&N& 
gallery. Had I been there, I, too, in the eyes of most Americans, 
would have been merely a pawn in the hands of the Communists. The 
climate and the events of the last decade, and the steady pressure of 
the "cold" war, have given Americans yet another means of avoiding 
self-examination, and so it has been decided that the riots were "Communist" 
inspired. Nor was it long, naturally, before prominent 
Negroes rushed forward to assure the republic that the U&N& rioters 
do not represent the real feeling of the Negro community. 
According, then, to what I take to be the prevailing view, these rioters 
were merely a handful of irresponsible, Stalinist-corrupted <provocateurs>.

I find this view amazing. It is a view which even 
a minimal effort at observation would immediately contradict. One 
has only, for example, to walk through Harlem and ask oneself two questions. 
The first question is: Would <I> like to live here? 
And the second question is: Why don't those who now live here move 
out? The answer to both questions is immediately obvious. Unless 
one takes refuge in the theory- however disguised- that Negroes 
are, somehow, different from white people, I do not see how one can 
escape the conclusion that the Negro's status in this country is 
not only a cruel injustice but a grave national liability.   Now, 
I do not doubt that, among the people at the U&N& that day, there 
were Stalinist and professional revolutionists acting out of the 
most cynical motives. Wherever there is great social discontent, these 
people are, sooner or later, to be found. Their presence is not as 
frightening as the discontent which creates their opportunity. What 
I find appalling- and really dangerous- is the American assumption 
that the Negro is so contented with his lot here that only the cynical 
agents of a foreign power can rouse him to protest. It is a notion 
which contains a gratuitous insult, implying, as it does, that Negroes 
can make no move unless they are manipulated. 
Color was delayed until 1935, the wide screen until the early fifties.

Movement itself was the chief and often the only attraction 
of the primitive movies of the nineties. Each film consisted of fifty 
feet, which gives a running time of about one minute on the screen. 
As long as audiences came to see the movement, there seemed little reason 
to adventure further. Motion-picture exhibitions took place in stores 
in a general atmosphere like that of the penny arcade which can 
still be found in such urban areas as Times Square. Brief snips of 
actual events were shown: parades, dances, street scenes. The sensational 
and frightening enjoyed popularity: a train rushes straight at 
the audience, or a great wave threatens to break over the seats. An 
early Edison production was <The Execution of Mary, Queen of Scots>. 
The unfortunate queen mounted the scaffold; the headsman swung 
his axe; the head dropped off; end of film. An early film by 
a competitor of the Wizard of Menlo Park simply showed a long kiss 
performed by two actors of the contemporary stage.   In the field 
of entertainment there is no spur to financial daring so effective 
as audience boredom, and the first decade of the new device was not over 
before audiences began staying away in large numbers from the simple-minded, 
one-minute shows. In response, the industry allowed the discovery 
of the motion picture as a form of fiction and thus gave the movies 
the essential form they have had to this day. Despite the sheer 
beauty and spectacle of numerous documentaries, art films, and travelogues, 
despite the impressive financial success of such a recent development 
as Cinerama, the movies are at heart a form of fiction, like the 
play, the novel, or the short story. Moreover, the most artistically 
successful of the nonfiction films have invariably borrowed the narrative 
form from the fiction feature. Thus such great American documentaries 
as <The River> and <The Plow That Broke the Plains> 
were composed as visual stories rather than as illustrated lectures. 
The discovery that movies are a form of fiction was made in the early 
years of this century and it was made chiefly by two men, a French 
magician, Georges Melies, and an American employee of Edison, Edwin 
S& Porter. Of the two, Porter is justly the better known, for 
he went far beyond the vital finding of fiction for films to take the 
first step toward fashioning a language of film, toward making the motion 
picture the intricate, efficient time machine that it has remained 
since, even in the most inept hands. 

#NARRATIVE TIME AND FILM TIME# 

Melies, however, out of his professional instincts as a magician, 
discovered and made use of a number of illusionary techniques that remain 
part of the vocabulary of film. One of these is the "dissolve", 
which makes possible a visually smooth transition from scene to scene. 
As the first scene begins to fade, the succeeding scene begins 
to appear. For a moment or two, both scenes are present simultaneously, 
one growing weaker, one growing stronger. In a series of fairy tales 
and fantasies, Melies demonstrated that the film is superbly equipped 
to tell a straightforward story, with beginning, middle and end, complications, 
resolutions, climaxes, and conclusions. Immediately, the 
film improved and it improved because in narrative it found a content 
based on time to complement its own unbreakable connection with time. 
Physically, a movie is possible because a series of images is projected 
one at a time at such a speed that the eye "remembers" the one 
that has gone before even as it registers the one now appearing. Linking 
the smoothly changing images together, the eye itself endows them 
with the illusion of movement. The "projection" time of painting 
and sculpture is highly subjective, varying from person to person and 
even varying for a given person on different occasions. So is the time 
of the novel. The drama in the theater and the concert in the hall 
both have a fixed time, but the time is fixed by the director and the 
players, the conductor and the instrumentalists, subject, therefore, 
to much variation, as record collectors well know. The time of the motion 
picture is fixed absolutely. The film consists of a series of still, 
transparent photographs, or "frames", 35-mm&-wide. Each frame 
comes between the light and the lens and is individually projected 
on the screen, at the rate, for silent movies, of 16 frames per second, 
and, for sound films, 24 frames per second. This is the rate of projection; 
it is also the rate of photographing. Time is built into 
the motion picture, which cannot exist without time. Now time is also 
the concern of the fictional narrative, which is, at its simplest, 
the story of an action with, usually, a beginning, a middle, and an end- 
elements which demand time as the first condition for their existence. 
The "moving" picture of the train or the wave coming at the 
audience is, to be sure, more intense than a still picture of the same 
subject, but the difference is really one of degree; the cinematic 
element of time is merely used to increase the realism of an object which 
would still be reasonably realistic in a still photo. In narrative, 
time is essential, as it is in film. Almost everything about the 
movies that is peculiarly <of> the movies derives from a tension created 
and maintained between narrative time and film time. This discovery 
of Melies was vastly more important than his sometimes dazzling, 
magician's tricks produced on film.   It was Porter, however, 
who produced the very first movie whose name has lived on through the 
half century of film history that has since ensued. The movie was <The 
Great Train Robbery> and its effects on the young industry and 
art were all but incalculable. Overnight, for one thing, Porter's 
film multiplied the standard running time of movies by ten. <The 
Great Train Robbery> is a one-reel film. One reel- from eight to 
twelve minutes- became the standard length from the year of <Robbery>, 
1903, until Griffith shattered that limit forever with <Birth of 
a Nation> in 1915. The reel itself became and still is the standard 
of measure for the movies.   The material of the Porter film 
is simplicity itself; much of it has continued to be used over the 
years and the heart of it- good guys and bad guys in the old West- 
pretty well dominated television toward the end of the 1950's. A 
band of robbers enters a railroad station, overpowers and ties up the 
telegraph operator, holds up the train and escapes. A posse is formed 
and pursues the robbers, who, having made their escape, are whooping 
it up with some wild, wild women in a honky-tonk hide-out. The robbers 
run from the hide-out, take cover in a wooded declivity, and are shot 
dead by the posse. As a finale is appended a close-up of one of the 
band taking aim and firing his revolver straight at the audience.

All this is simple enough, but in telling the story Porter did 
two important things that had not been done before. Each scene is shot 
straight through, as had been the universal custom, from a camera fixed 
in a single position, but in the outdoor scenes, especially in the 
capture and destruction of the outlaws, Porter's camera position 
breaks, necessarily, with the camera position standard until then, which 
had been, roughly, that of a spectator in a center orchestra seat at 
a play. The plane of the action in the scene is not parallel with the 
plane of the film in the camera or on the screen. If the change, at 
first sight, seems minor, we may recall that it took the Italian painters 
about two hundred years to make an analogous change, and the Italian 
painters, by universal consent, were the most brilliant group of 
geniuses any art has seen. In that apparently simple shift Porter 
opened the way to the sensitive use of the camera as an instrument of 
art as well as a mechanical recording device.   He did more than 
that. He revealed the potential value of the "cut" as the basic 
technique in the art of the film. Cutting, of course, takes place automatically 
in the creation of a film. The meaning of the word is quite 
physical, to begin with. The physical film is cut with a knife at the 
end of one complete sequence, and the cut edge is joined physically, 
by cement, to the cut edge of the beginning of the next sequence. If, 
as a home movie maker, you shoot the inevitable footage of your child 
taking its first steps, you have merely recorded an historical event. 
If, in preparing that shot for the inevitable showing to your friends, 
you interrupt the sequence to paste in a few frames of the child's 
grandmother watching this event, you have begun to be an artist in 
film; you are employing the basic technique of film; you are cutting.

This is what Porter did. As the robbers leave the looted 
train, the film suddenly cuts back to the station, where the telegrapher's 
little daughter arrives with her father's dinner pail only 
to find him bound on the floor. She dashes around in alarm. The two 
events are taking place at the same time. Time and space have both become 
cinematic. We leap from event to event- including the formation 
of the posse- even though the events, in "reality" are taking 
place not in sequence but simultaneously, and not near each other but 
at a considerable distance.   The "chase" as a standard film 
device probably dates from <The Great Train Robbery>, and there 
is a reason for the continued popularity of the device. The chase in 
itself is a narrative; it presumes both speed and urgency and it demands 
cutting- both from pursued to pursuer and from stage to stage 
of the journey of both. The simple, naked idea of one man chasing another 
is of its nature better fitted for the film than it is for any other 
form of fiction. The cowboy films, the cops and robbers films, and 
the slapstick comedy films culminating in an insane chase are not 
only catering to what critics may assume to be a vulgar taste for violence; 
these films and these sequences are also seeking out- instinctively 
or by design- the peculiarly cinematic elements of narrative. 

#THE CREATOR OF THE ART OF THE FILM: D&W&GRIFFITH#

There 
still remained the need for one great film artist to explore the full 
potential of the new form and to make it an art. The man was D&W& 
Griffith. When he came to the movies- more or less by accident- 
they were still cheap entertainment capable of enthralling the unthinking 
for an idle few minutes. In about seven years Griffith either 
invented or first realized the possibilities of virtually every resource 
at the disposal of the film maker. Before he was forty Griffith 
had created the art of the film.   Not that there had not been 
attempts, mostly European, to do exactly that. But in general the European 
efforts to make an art of the entertainment had ignored the slowly 
emerging language of the film itself. Staggeringly condensed versions 
of famous novels and famous plays were presented. Great actors 
and actresses- the most notable being Sarah Bernhardt- were hired 
to repeat their stage performances before the camera. In all of this 
extensive and expensive effort, the camera was downgraded to the status 
of recording instrument for art work produced elsewhere by the actor 
or by the author. The phonograph today, for all its high fidelity 
and stereophonic sound, is precisely what the early art purveyors in 
the movies wished to make of the camera. Not surprisingly, this approach 
did not work. The effort produced a valuable record of stage techniques 
in the early years of the century and some interesting records 
of great theater figures who would otherwise be only names. But no art 
at all was born of the art effort in the early movies. 
In general, religious interest seems to exist in all parts of the metropolis; 
congregational membership, however, is another thing. A congregation 
survives only if it can sustain a socially homogeneous membership; 
that is, when it can preserve economic integration. Religious 
faith can be considered a <necessary> condition of membership in 
a congregation, since the decision to join a worshiping group requires 
some motive force, but faith is not a <sufficient> condition for joining; 
the presence of other members of similar social and economic 
level is the <sufficient> condition.   The breakdown of social 
homogeneity in inner city areas and the spread of inner city blight account 
for the decline of central city churches. Central cities reveal 
two adverse features for the major denominations: (1) central cities 
tend to be areas of residence for lower social classes; (2) central 
cities tend to be more heterogeneous in social composition. The central 
city areas, in other words, exhibit the two characteristics which 
violate the life principle of congregations of the major denominations: 
they have too few middle-class people; they mix middle-class people 
with lower-class residents. Central city areas have become progressively 
poorer locales for the major denominations since the exodus 
of middle-class people from most central cities. With few exceptions, 
the major denominations are rapidly losing their hold on the central 
city.   The key to Protestant development, therefore, is economic 
integration of the nucleus of the congregation. Members of higher 
and lower social status often cluster around this nucleus, so that Protestant 
figures on social class give the impression of spread over all 
social classes; but this is deceptive, for the core of membership 
is 
concentrated in a single social and economic stratum. The congregation 
perishes when it is no longer possible to replenish that core from the 
neighborhood; moreover, residential mobility is so high in metropolitan 
areas that churches have to recruit constantly in their core stratum 
in order to survive; they can lose higher- and lower-status members 
from the church without collapsing, but they need adequate recruits 
for the core stratum in order to preserve economic integration. The 
congregation is first and foremost an economic peer group; it is 
secondarily a believing and worshiping fellowship. If it were primarily 
a believing fellowship, it would recruit believers from all social 
and economic ranks, something which most congregations of the New Protestantism 
(with a few notable exceptions) have not been able to do. 
They survive only when they can recruit social and economic peers.

The vulnerability of Protestant congregations to social differences 
has often been attributed to the "folksy spirit" of Protestant 
religious life; in fact, a contrast is often drawn in this regard 
with the "impersonal" Roman Catholic parish. We have seen that 
the folksy spirit is confined to economic peers; consequently, the 
vulnerability to social difference should not be attributed to the stress 
on personal community in Protestant congregations; actually, there 
is little evidence of such personal community in Protestant congregations, 
as we shall see in another connection. The vulnerability of 
Protestantism to social differences stems from the peculiar role of 
the new religious style in middle-class life, where the congregation is 
a vehicle of social and economic group identity and must conform, therefore, 
to the principle of economic integration. This fact is evident 
in the recruitment of new members. 

#MISSION AS CO-OPTATION#

The 
rule of economic integration in congregational life can be seen in the 
missionary outreach of the major denominations. There is much talk 
in theological circles about the "Church as Mission" and the "Church's 
Mission"; theologians have been stressing the fact that 
the Church does not exist for its own sake but as a testimony in 
the world for the healing of the world. A crucial question, therefore, 
is what evangelism and mission actually mean in metropolitan Protestantism. 
If economic integration really shapes congregational life, then 
evangelism should be a process of extending economic integration. 
The task of a congregation would be defined, according to economic integration, 
as the work of co-opting individuals and families of similar 
social and economic position to replenish the nuclear core of the congregation. 
(Co-optation means to choose by joint action in order to 
fill a vacancy; it can also mean the assimilation of centers of power 
from an environment in order to strengthen an organization.) In a 
mobile society, congregational health depends on a constant process of 
recruitment; this recruitment, however, must follow the pattern of 
economic integration or it will disrupt the congregation; therefore, 
the recruitment or missionary outreach of the congregation will be co-optation 
rather than proclamation- like elements will have to be assimilated.

Evangelism and congregational outreach have not been 
carefully studied in the churches; one study in Pittsburgh, however, 
has illuminated the situation. In a sample of new members of Pittsburgh 
churches, almost 60 per cent were recruited by initial "contacts 
with friendly members". If we add to these contacts with friendly 
members the "contacts with an organization of the church" (11.2 
per cent of the cases), then a substantial two thirds of all recruitment 
is through friendly contact. On the surface, this seems a sound 
approach to Christian mission: members of the congregation show by 
their friendly attitudes that they care for new people; the new people 
respond in kind by joining the church.   Missionary outreach 
by friendly contact looks somewhat different when one reflects on what 
is known about friendly contact in metropolitan neighborhoods; the majority 
of such contacts are with people of similar social and economic 
position; association by level of achievement is the dominant principle 
of informal relations. This means that the antennae of the congregation 
are extended into the community, picking up the wave lengths 
of those who will fit into the social and economic level of the congregation; 
the mission of the church is actually a process of informal 
co-optation; the lay ministry is a means to recruit like-minded people 
who will strengthen the social class nucleus of the congregation. 
Churches can be strengthened through this process of co-optation so long 
as the environs of the church provide a sufficient pool of people 
who can fit the pattern of economic integration; once the pool of recruits 
diminishes, the congregation is helpless- friendly contacts no 
longer keep it going.   The transmutation of mission to co-optation 
is further indicated by the insignificance of educational activities, 
worship, preaching, and publicity in reaching new members. The 
proclamation of the churches is almost totally confined to pastoral contacts 
by the clergy (17.3 per cent of new members) and friendly contacts 
by members (over two thirds if organizational activities are included). 
Publicity accounted for 1.1 per cent of the initial contacts with 
new members. In general, friendly contact with a member followed by 
contact with a clergyman will account for a major share of recruitment 
by the churches, making it quite evident that the extension of economic 
integration through co-optation is the principal form of mission 
in the contemporary church; economic integration and co-optation are 
the two methods by which Protestants associate with and recruit from 
the neighborhood. The inner life of congregations will prosper so long 
as like-minded people of similar social and economic level can fraternize 
together; the outer life of congregations- the suitability 
of the environment to their survival- will be propitious so long as 
the people in the area are of the same social and economic level as the 
membership. Economic integration ceases when the social and economic 
statuses in an area become too mixed or conflict with the status of 
the congregation. In a rapidly changing society congregations will run 
into difficulties repeatedly, since such nice balances of economic integration 
are hard to sustain in the metropolis for more than a single 
generation. The fact that metropolitan churches of the major denominations 
have moved approximately every generation for the last hundred 
years becomes somewhat more intelligible in the light of this struggle 
to maintain economic balance. The expense of this type of organization 
in religious life, when one recalls the number of city churches which 
deteriorated beyond repair before being abandoned, raises fundamental 
questions about the principle of Protestant survival in a mobile 
society; nonetheless, the prevalence of economic integration in congregations 
illumines the nature of the Protestant development. 
It was observed in the introductory chapter that metropolitan life had 
split into two trends- expanding interdependence on an impersonal 
basis and growing exclusiveness in local communal groupings. These trends 
seem to be working at cross-purposes in the metropolis. Residential 
associations struggle to insulate themselves against intrusions. 
The motifs of impersonal interdependence and insulation of residential 
communities have polarized; the schism between central city and suburb, 
Negro and White, blue collar and white collar can be viewed as 
symptomatic of this deeper polarization of trends in the metropolis. 
It now becomes evident that the denominational church is intimately involved 
with the economy of middle-class culture, for it serves to crystallize 
the social class identity of middle-class residential groupings. 
The accelerated pace of metropolitan changes has accentuated the 
drive to conformity in congregations of the major denominations. This 
conformity represents a desperate attempt to stabilize a hopelessly unstable 
environment. More than creatures of metropolitan forces, the 
churches have taken the lead in counteracting the interdependence of metropolitan 
life, crystallizing and perpetuating the stratification of 
peoples, giving form to the struggle for social homogeneity in a world 
of heterogeneous peoples.   Since American life is committed 
above all to productivity and a higher standard of economic life, the 
countervailing forces of residential and religious exclusiveness have 
fought a desperate, rearguard action against the expanding interdependence 
of the metropolis. Consumer communities have suffered at the hands 
of the productive interests. Negroes, Puerto Ricans, and rural 
newcomers are slowly making their way into the cities. Soon they will 
fight their way into the lower middle-class suburbs, and the churches 
will experience the same decay and rebuilding cycle which has characterized 
their history for a century. The identification of the basic unit 
of religious organization- the parish or congregation- with a 
residential area is self-defeating in a modern metropolis, for it simply 
means the closing of an iron trap on the outreach of the Christian 
fellowship and the transmutation of mission to co-optation. Mission 
to the metropolis contradicts survival of the congregation in the residential 
community, because the middle classes are fighting metropolitan 
interdependence with residential exclusion.   This interpretation 
of the role of residence in the economy of middle-class culture could 
lead to various projections for the churches. It could be argued 
that any fellowship which centers in residential neighborhoods is doomed 
to become an expression of the panic for stable identity among the 
middle classes. It could be argued that only such neighborhoods can sustain 
religious activity, since worship presupposes some local stabilities. 
Whatever projection one makes, the striking fact about congregational 
and parochial life is the extent to which it is a vehicle of the 
social identity of middle-class people.   Attention will be given 
in the next chapter to the style of association in the denominational 
churches; this style is characteristically an expression of the 
communal style of the middle classes. The keynotes of this style are 
activism and emphasis on achievements in gaining self-esteem. These 
values give direction to the life of the middle-class man or woman, dictating 
the methods of child rearing, determining the pattern of community 
participation, setting the style for the psychiatric treatment of 
middle-class illness, and informing the congregational life of the major 
denominations. "Fellowship by likeness" and "mission by friendly 
contact" form the iron cage of denominational religion. Its contents 
are another matter, for they reveal the kinds of interests pursued 
by the congregation. What goes on in the cage will occupy our attention 
under the rubric of the organization church. An understanding 
of the new role of residential association in an industrial society 
serves to illuminate the forces which have fashioned the iron cage of 
conformity which imprisons the churches in their suburban captivity.

The perplexing question still remains as to why the middle classes 
turn to the churches as a vehicle of social identity when their clubs 
and charities should fill the same need. 
With capital largely squandered, there seemed to them no other course 
to pursue.   The directors sold directly to concessionaires, who 
had to make their profits above the high prices asked by the company. 
These concessionaires traded where they wished and generally dealt 
with the Indians through <engages>, who might be <habitants, voyageurs>, 
or even soldiers. The concessionaires also had to pay a tax of 
one-tenth on the goods they traded, and all pelts were to be taken to 
company stores and shipped to France in company ships. The company 
disposed of the pelts, but with what profit, the records do not show.

In accord with its penurious policy, the company failed to furnish 
presents to hold the loyalty of the principal Indians. The lavish 
use of presents had been effective in expanding the Indian trade 
of New France and Louisiana in the previous century, and the change 
in liberality aroused resentment in the minds of the red men. Traders 
from the English colonies were far more generous, and Indian loyalty 
turned to them. Protests from governors and intendants passed unheeded, 
and the parsimonious policy of the company probably let loose Indian 
insurrections that brought ruin to the company.   In 1721 
the King sent three commissioners to Louisiana with full powers to do 
all that was necessary to protect the colony. They ordered the raising 
of troops and obtained 75,000 livres with which to build forts. They 
adopted a program by which Louisiana was divided into five districts. 
In each of these there was to be a strong military post, and a trading 
depot to supply the smaller trading houses. For southeastern 
Louisiana, 
Mobile was the principal post, and it was to furnish supplies 
for trade to the north and east, in the region threatened by British 
traders. Mobile was to be the anchor of a chain of posts extending 
northward to the sources of the Tennessee River. Fort Toulouse, 
on the Alabama River, had been erected in 1714 for trade with the Alabamas 
and Choctaws, but money was available for only one other new 
post, near the present Nashville, Tennessee, and this was soon abandoned.

West of the Mobile district was the lower Mississippi 
district, of which New Orleans was headquarters. Dependent upon it 
were posts on the lower Mississippi and the region westward to the frontiers 
of New Spain.   On the middle Mississippi a principal 
post was to be located near the mouth of the Arkansas. It was hoped 
that to this post would flow a large quantity of furs from the west, 
principally down the Arkansas River. On the Ohio or Wabash was to 
be built another post "at the fork of two great rivers". Other 
posts would be established up the Ohio and Wabash to protect communication 
with Canada. On the upper Mississippi the Illinois post was 
to be established near Kaskaskia, and dependent posts were to be built 
on the Missouri, "where there are mines in abundance". 
Each of the five principal posts was to have a director, responsible 
to a director-general at New Orleans. An elaborate system of accounting 
and reports was worked out, and the trade was to be managed in the 
most scientific way. Concessionaires were to be under the supervision 
of the directors. <Engages> must be loyal to the concessionaires, 
and must serve until the term provided in the engagement was ended. 
The <habitants> were to be encouraged to trade and were to dispose 
of their pelts to the concessionaires.   Only two principal storehouses 
were actually established- one at Mobile, the other at New 
Orleans. New Orleans supplied the goods for the trade on the Mississippi, 
and west of that river, and on the Ohio and Wabash. Mobile 
was also supplied by New Orleans with goods for the Mobile district.

The power that Bienville exercised during his first administration 
cannot be determined. Regulations for the Indian trade were 
made by the <Conseil superieure de la Louisiane>, and Bienville 
apparently did not have control of that body. The <Conseil> even 
treated the serious matter of British aggression as its business and, 
on its own authority, sent to disaffected savages merchandise "suitable 
for the peltry trade". It decided, also, that the purely secular 
efforts of Bienville were insufficient, and sent missionaries to 
win the savages from the heathen Carolinians.   During the first 
administration of Bienville, the peltry trade of the Mobile district 
was a lucrative source of revenue. The Alabamas brought in annually 
15,000 to 20,000 deerskins, and the Choctaws and Chickasaws brought 
the total up to 50,000 pelts. These deerskins were the raw material 
for the manufacture of leather, and were the only articles which the 
tribes of this district had to exchange for European goods. 
During his first administration, Bienville succeeded in keeping Carolina 
traders out of the Alabama country and the Choctaw country. The 
director of the post at Mobile kept an adequate amount of French 
goods, of a kind to which they were accustomed, to supply the Indian 
needs. The Alabama and Tombigbee rivers furnished a highway by which 
goods could be moved quickly and cheaply. De la Laude, commander 
of the Alabama post, had the friendship of the natives, and was able 
to make them look upon the British as poor competitors. Diron d'Artaguette, 
the most prominent trader in the district, was energetic and 
resourceful, but his methods often aroused the ire of the French governors. 
He became, after a time, commander of a post on the Alabama 
River, but his operations extended from Mobile throughout the district, 
and he finally obtained a monopoly of the Indian trade.   The 
Chickasaws were the principal source of trouble in the Mobile district. 
Their territory lay to the north, near the sources of the Alabama, 
the Tombigbee, the Tennessee, and Cumberland rivers, and was 
easily accessible to traders among the near-by Cherokees. In 1720 some 
Chickasaws massacred the French traders among them, and did not 
make peace for four years. Venturesome traders, however, continued to 
come to them from Mobile, and to obtain a considerable number of pelts 
for the French markets. British traders from South Carolina incited 
the Indians against the French, and there developed French and 
British Factions in the tribe. The Chickasaws finally were the occasion 
for the most disastrous wars during the French control of Louisiana. 
To hold them was an essential part of French policy, for they 
controlled the upper termini of the routes from the north to Mobile. 
They threatened constantly to give the British a hold on this region, 
from whence they could move easily down the rivers to the French 
settlements near the Gulf.   Bienville realized that if the French 
were to hold the southeastern tribes against the enticements of British 
goods, French traders must be able to offer a supply as abundant 
as the Carolinians and at reasonable prices. His urgings brought 
some results. The Company of the Indies promised to send over a supply 
of Indian trading goods, and to price them more cheaply in terms 
of deerskins. But it coupled with this a requirement that Indians 
must bring their pelts to Mobile and thus save all costs of transportation 
into and out of the Indian country.   The insistence of Bienville 
upon giving liberal prices to the Indians, in order to drive 
back the Carolina traders, was probably a factor that led to his recall 
in 1724. For two years his friend and cousin, Boisbriant, remained 
as acting governor and could do little to stem the Anglican advance. 
Although he incited a few friendly Indians to pillage the invaders, 
and even kill some of them, the Carolina advance continued.

The company was impressed with some ideas of the danger from Carolina, 
and when Perier came over as governor in 1727, he was given special 
instructions regarding the trade of the Mobile district. But the 
Company of the Indies, holding to its program of economy, made no arrangements 
to furnish better goods at attractive prices. To the directors 
the problem appeared a matter of intrigue or diplomacy. Perier 
attempted to understand the problem by sending agents to inquire among 
the Indians. These agents were to ascertain the difference between 
English and French goods, and the prices charged the Indians. They 
were to conciliate the unfriendly savages, and, wherever possible, to 
incite the natives to pillage the traders from Carolina. They were 
to promise fine presents to the loyal red men, as well as an abundant 
supply of trading goods at better prices than the opposition was offering. 
Perier's intrigues gained some successes. The savages divided 
into two factions; one was British and the other, French. So hostile 
did these factions become that, among the Choctaws, civil war broke 
out.   Perier's efforts, however, were on the whole ineffective 
in winning back the tribes of the Mobile district, and he decided 
to send troops into the troubled country. He asked the government 
for two hundred soldiers, who were to be specifically assigned to arrest 
English traders and disloyal Indians. In spite of the company's 
restrictions, he planned to build new posts in the territory. He asked 
also for more supplies to trade at a low price for the Indians' 
pelts.   No help came from the crown, and Perier, in desperation, 
gave a monopoly of the Indian trade in the district to D'Artaguette. 
D'Artaguette went vigorously to work, and gave credit to many 
hunters. But they brought back few pelts to pay their debts, and soon 
French trade in the region was at an end. Perier finally, in one 
last bid in 1730, cut the price of goods to an advance of 40 per cent 
above the cost in France. The Indians were not impressed and held 
to the Carolina traders, who swarmed over the country, almost to the 
Mississippi.   With the loss of the Mobile trade, which ended 
all profits from Louisiana, the Natchez Indians revolted. They destroyed 
a trading house and pillaged the goods, and harassed French shipping 
on the Mississippi. The war to subdue them taxed the resources 
of the colony and piled up enormous debts. In January, 1731, the company 
asked the crown to relieve it of the government of the colony. 
It stated that it had lost 20,000,000 livres in its operations, and apparently 
blamed its poor success largely on the Indian trade. It offered 
to surrender its right to exclusive trade, but asked an indemnity. 
The King accepted the surrender and fixed the compensation of the 
company at 1,450,000 livres. Thenceforth, the commerce of Louisiana 
was free to all Frenchmen.   Company rule in Louisiana left the 
colony without fortifications, arms, munitions, or supplies. The difficulties 
of trade had ruined many <voyageurs>, and numbers of them 
had gone to live with the natives and rear half-blood families. Others 
left the country, and there was no one familiar with the Indian trade. 
If this trade should be resumed, the <habitants> who had come 
to be farmers or artisans, and soldiers discharged from the army, must 
be hardened to the severe life of <coureurs de bois>. This was a 
slow and difficult course, and French trade suffered from the many mistakes 
of the new group of traders. These men were without capital or 
experience.   Perier and Salmon, the intendant, wished either 
to entrust the trade to an association of merchants or to have the crown 
furnish goods on credit to individuals who would repay their debts 
with pelts. Bienville, who returned to succeed Perier in 1732, objected 
that the merchants would not accept the responsibility of managing 
a trade in which they could see no hope of profits. He reported, too, 
that among the <habitants> there were none of probity and ability 
sufficient to justify entrusting them with the King's goods. He did 
find some to trust, however, and he employed the King's soldiers 
to trade. With no company to interfere, he kept close control over all 
the traders.   In order to compete with English traders, Bienville 
radically changed the price schedule. The King should expect 
no profit, and an advance of only 20 per cent above the cost in France, 
which would cover the expense of transportation and handling, was all 
he charged the traders. 
They would not be pleased to have it published back home that they planned 
a frolic in Paris or Hong Kong at the Treasury's expense. 
They would be particularly displeased with the State Department if 
it were the source of such reports. Few things are more perilous for 
the State Department than a displeased congressman.   The reason 
for this bears explaining for those who may wonder why State spends 
so much of its diplomatic energy on Congress when the Russians are 
so available. First, the State Department is unique among government 
agencies for its lack of public supporters. The farmers may be aroused 
if Congress cuts into the Agriculture Department's budget. Businessmen 
will rise if Congress attacks the Commerce Department. 
Labor restrains undue brutality toward the Labor Department; the 
Chamber of Commerce, assaults upon the Treasury. A kaleidoscope of 
pressure groups make it unpleasant for the congressman who becomes ugly 
toward the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. The congressman's 
patriotism is always involved when he turns upon the Defense 
Department. Tampering with the Post Office may infuriate every 
voter who can write.   With all these agencies, the congressman 
must constantly check the political wind and trim his sails accordingly. 
No such political restraint subdues his blood when he gazes upon 
the State Department in anger.   In many sections he may even 
reap applause from press and public for giving it a good lesson. After 
all, the money dispensed by State goes not to the farmer, the laborer, 
or the businessman, but to <foreigners>. Not only do these foreigners 
not vote for American congressmen; they are also probably 
ungrateful for Uncle's Sam's bounty. And are not the State Department 
men who dispense this largesse merely crackpots and do-gooders 
who have never met a payroll? Will not the righteous congressman 
be cheered at the polls if he reminds them to get right with America 
and if he saves the taxpayer some money by spoiling a few of their schemes? 
The chances are excellent that he will.   The result is 
that the State Department's perpetual position before Congress is 
the resigned pose of the whipping boy who expects to be kicked whenever 
the master has had a dyspeptic outing with his wife. People in this 
position do not offend the master by relating his peccadilloes to the 
newspapers. State keeps the junketeering list a secret.   The 
Department expects and receives no thanks from Congress for its discretion. 
Congress is a harsh master. State is expected to arrange the 
touring Cicero's foreign itinerary; its embassies are expected 
to supply him with reams of local money to pay his way; embassy workers 
are expected to entertain him according to his whim, frequently with 
their savings for the children's college tuition.   But come 
the next session of Congress, State can expect only that its summer 
guest will bite its hand when it goes to the Capitol asking money 
for diplomatic entertaining expenses abroad or for living expenses for 
its diplomats. The congressman who, in Paris, may have stuffed his 
wallet with enough franc notes to paper the roof of Notre-Dame will 
systematically scream that a $200 increase in entertainment allowance 
for a second secretary is tantamount to debauchery of the Treasury.

In the matter of money State's most unrelenting watchdog during 
the Eisenhower years was Representative John J& Rooney, of 
Brooklyn, who controlled the purse for diplomatic administrative expenses. 
Diplomats stayed up nights thinking of ways to attain peaceful 
coexistence, not with Nikita Khrushchev, but with John Rooney. Nothing 
worked. In the most confidential whispers ambassadors told of 
techniques they had tried to bring Rooney around- friendly persuasion, 
groveling abasement, pressure subtly exerted through other powerful 
congressmen, tales of heartbreak and penury among a threadbare diplomatic 
corps. Rooney remained untouched.   "The trouble" explained 
Loy Henderson, then Deputy Undersecretary for Administration, 
"is that when we get into an argument with him about this thing, 
it always turns out that Rooney knows more about our budget than we 
do".   One year the Department collected a file of case histories 
to document its argument that men in the field were paying the government's 
entertainment bills out of personal income. News of the 
project reached the press. Next day, reports went through the Department 
that Rooney had been outraged by what he considered a patent attempt 
to put public pressure on him for increased entertainment allowances 
and had sworn an oath that, that year, expense allowances would not 
rise a dollar. They didn't.   The Department's constant 
fight with the House for money is a polite minuet compared with its periodic 
bloody engagements with the Senate. Armed with constitutional 
power to negate the Executive's foreign policy, the Senate carries 
a big stick and is easily provoked to use it on the State Department's 
back, or on the head of the Secretary of State.   With 
its power to investigate, the Senate can paralyze the Secretary by 
keeping him in a state of perpetual testimony before committees, as it 
did with Dean Acheson. John Foster Dulles escaped by keeping his 
personal show on the road and because Lyndon Johnson, who was then 
operating the Senate, refused to let it become an Inquisition. During 
Dulles's first two years in office, while Republicans ran the 
Senate, the Department was at the mercy of men who had thirsted for 
its 
blood since 1945.   An internal police operation managed by Scott 
McLeod, a former F&B&I& man installed as security officer 
upon congressional insistence, was part of the vengeance. So was 
the attack upon Charles E& Bohlen when Eisenhower appointed him 
Ambassador to Moscow. The principal mauler, however, was Senator 
Joseph McCarthy. Where Acheson had fought a gallant losing battle 
for the Department, Dulles fed the crocodile with his subordinates. 
Fretting privately but eschewing public defense of his terrorized bureaucrats, 
Dulles remained serene and detached while the hatchet men 
had their way.   In view of Eisenhower's reluctance to concede 
that anything was amiss in the Terror, it is doubtful that heroic intervention 
by Dulles could have produced anything but disaster for him 
and the country's foreign policy. In any event, the example of Acheson's 
trampling by the Senate did not encourage Dulles to provoke 
it. He elected to "get along".   During this dark chapter 
in State Department history, men who had offered foreign-policy ideas 
later proven wrong by events filled the tumbrels sent up to Capitol 
Hill. Their old errors of judgment were equated, in the curious 
logic of the time, with present treasonous intent. Their successors, 
absorbing the lesson, made it a point to have few ideas.   This, 
in turn, brought a new fashion in senatorial criticism as the Democrats 
took control. In the new style, the Department was berated as intellectually 
barren and unable to produce the vital ideas needed to outwit 
the Russians. For three or four years in the mid-1950's, this 
complaint was heard rumbling up from the Senate floor whenever there 
was a dull legislative afternoon. It became smart to say that the fault 
was with Dulles because he would not countenance thinking done by 
anyone but himself.   An equally tenable thesis is that the dearth 
of new thought was created by the Senate's own penchant for crucifying 
anyone whose ideas seem unorthodox to the next generation. #@ 
GETTING ALONG WITH FOREIGNERS#

THERE ARE ninety-eight foreign 
embassies and legations in Washington. They range from the Soviet 
Embassy on Sixteenth Street, a gray shuttered pile suggesting a 
funeral-accessories 
display house, to what Congressman Rooney has called 
"that monstrosity on Thirty-fourth Street", the modern cement-and-glass 
chancery of the Belgians.   Here is the world of the 
chauffeured limousine and the gossip reporter, of caviar on stale crackers 
and the warm martini, of the poseur, the spy, the party crasher, 
and the patriot, of the rented tails, the double cross, and the tired 
Lothario.   Into its chanceries each day pour reports from ministries 
around the earth and an endless stream of home-office instructions 
on how to handle Uncle Sam in an infinite variety of contingencies. 
Here are hatched plans for getting a share of the American bounty, 
the secret of the anti-missile missile, or an invitation to dinner. 
Out of it each week go hundreds of thousands of words purporting 
to inform home ministries about what is really happening inside Washington. 
Some, like the British and the French, maintain an elaborate 
system of personal contacts and have experts constantly studying special 
areas of the American scene. Other embassies cable home <The 
New York Times> without changing a comma.   Each has its peculiar 
style. The Soviet Embassy is popularly regarded as Russian espionage 
headquarters. When Ambassador Mikhail Menshikov took it over 
in 1957 from Georgi Zaroubin, he made a determined effort to change 
this idea. Menshikov hit Washington with a ~TV announcer's 
grin and a hearty handclasp. To everyone's astonishment he seemed 
no more like the run-of-the-mine Russian ambassador than George Babbitt 
was like Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov.   Where his predecessors 
had glowered, Menshikov smiled. Where they had affected the 
bleak social style of embalmers' assistants, Menshikov went abroad 
gorgeous in white tie and tails. Overnight he became the most available 
man in Washington. Speeches by the Soviet ambassador became the 
vogue as he obliged rural Maryland Rotarians and National Press Club 
alike. In Senator Joseph McCarthy's phrase, it was the most 
unheard-of thing ever heard of. A newspaperman who met him at a reception 
swore that he asked Menshikov: "What should we call you"? 
And that Menshikov replied: "Just call me Mike". 
"Smilin' Mike" was the sobriquet Washington gave him. His English 
was usable and he used it fearlessly. Toasting in champagne one 
night at the embassy, he hoisted his glass to a senator's wife and 
gaily cried: "Up your bottom"! For a few giddy months that 
coincided with one of Moscow's smiling moods, he was the sensation 
of Washington. At the State Department, hard-bitten Russian experts 
complained that the Capitol was out of its wits. Newspaper punditry 
was inspired to remind everyone that Judas, too, had been able to 
smile.   The Menshikov interlude ended as larks with the Russians 
usually end. Finding peaceful coexistence temporarily unsuitable 
because of domestic politics, Moscow resumed scowling and "Smilin' 
Mike" dropped quietly out of the press except for an occasional 
story reporting that he had been stoned somewhere in the Middle West.

The most inscrutable embassies are the Arabs', and the most 
inscrutable of the Arabs are the Saudi Arabians. When King Saud 
visited Washington, the overwhelming question consuming the press 
was the size of his family. Rumor had it that his children numbered 
in the hundreds. The State Department was little help on this, or 
on much else about Saudi Arabia. A reporter who consulted a Middle 
East Information officer for routine vital statistics got nowhere until 
the State Department man produced from his bottom desk drawer a 
brochure published by the Arabian-American Oil Company. "This 
is where I get my information from", he confided. "But bring it 
right back. It's the only copy I've got".   The size of 
Saud's family was still being debated when the King appeared for his 
first meeting with Eisenhower. When it ended, a dusky sheik in desert 
robes flowed into Hagerty's office to report on the interview. 
The massed reporters brushed aside the customary bromides about Saudi-American 
friendship to bore in on the central question. How many 
children did the King have?   "Twenty-one", replied the sheik.

And how many of these were sons?   "Twenty-five", 
the sheik replied.   "Do you mean to tell us", a reporter 
asked, "that the King has twenty-one children, twenty-five of whom 
are sons"?   The sheik smiled and murmured: "That is 
precisely correct".   The Egyptians are noted for elusiveness 
of language. When Dag Hammarskjold was negotiating the Middle East 
peace after Israel's 1956 invasion of Egypt, he soon found himself 
speaking the mysterious phrases of Cairo, a language as anarchic 
as Casey Stengel's. The reports of President Nasser's pledges 
which Hammarskjold was relaying from Cairo to Washington became 
increasingly incomprehensible to other diplomats, including the Israeli 
Foreign Minister, Mrs& Golda Meir. Finally he reported that 
Nasser was ready to make a concrete commitment in return for Israeli 
concessions. 
The deep water is used by many people, but it is always clean, for the 
washing is done outside. I know now why our Japanese friends were 
surprised when they walked into our bathroom.   Of course, most 
toilets are Eastern style- at floor level- but even when they are 
raised to chair height, they are actually outside toilets- inside. 
A few newer homes have Western flush toilets, but even with running 
water, they are usually Eastern style.   The next day I visited 
International Christian College which has developed since the war 
under the leadership of people who were interned and who know Japan 
well. They are trying to demonstrate some different ways of teaching 
and learning. The library has open shelves even in the unbound periodical 
stockroom. Spiritual life is cultivated, but students do not need 
to be Christian. They have an enviable record of being able to place 
in employment 100% of their graduates.   In the afternoon Miss 
Hosaka and her mother invited me to go with them and young Mrs& 
Kodama to see the famous Spring dances of the Geisha dancers. Mrs& 
Hosaka is one of the Japanese women one reads about- beautiful, 
artistically talented, an artful manager of her big household- 
(four boys and four girls), and yet looking like a pampered, gentle Japanese 
woman. She was a real experience! The dances were as beautiful 
as anything I have ever seen- they rival the New York Rockettes 
for scenery and precision as well as imagination.   Because 
Don was leaving the next day, I spent the evening with him at Asia 
Center. The following morning Mr& Morikawa called for me, and 
we went to visit schools- kindergarten, middle-school, elementary 
school, and high school- Mr& Yoshimoto's school. There 
is much more freedom in the schools here than I expected- some think 
too much.   There is a great deal of thought being given to 
the question of moral education in the schools. With the loss of the 
Emperor diety in Japan, the people are left in confusion with no God 
or moral teachings that have strength. The older parents continued 
to teach their children traditional principles, but the younger people, 
who have lost all faith and convictions, are now parents. There seems 
to be no purpose in life that is sure- no certain guiding principles 
to give stability. As a result, money is spent quickly and freely, 
with no thought of its value. Gambling is everywhere, especially among 
students. Parents indulge their children.   The government 
has recognized the dilemma and is beginning to devise some moral education 
for the schools- but the teachers often have no firm conviction 
and are confused. I was told that it is quite likely that Japanese 
soldiers would not fight again- for why should they? It will be 
painful, but interesting, to see what kind of a god these people will 
create or what strong convictions they will develop.   In the evening 
the former Oregon State science teachers met for dinner at the 
New Tokyo Restaurant where I had my first raw fish and found it good. 
They suggested several new foods, and usually I found them good, 
except the sweets, which I think I could learn to like. Six of the 
science teachers were present, and we had great fun. 

#KYOTO#

After 
a day at Nikko, Mrs& Kodama put me on the train for Kyoto. 
My instructions were that Mr& Nishimo would meet me at the hotel, 
but instead he and three others were at the station with a very warm 
welcome. My hotel rooms on the trip were arranged by Masu and the Japan 
Travel Bureau and were more elegant than I would have chosen, 
but it was fun for once to be elegant- I did explain to the students, 
however, that this was not my usual style, for their salaries are very 
small, and it seemed out of place for me to be housed so well. They 
understood and teased me a bit about it.   I think I would have 
been much disappointed in Japan if I had not seen Kyoto, Nara, 
and Hiroshima. Kyoto is the ancient capital of Japan and still its 
cultural center. It, along with Nara, was untouched by the war- 
and 
is now a beautiful example of the loveliness of prewar Japan. Here 
I was accompanied by Mrs& Okamoto (Fumio's mother), her son, 
Mr& Washizu (a prospective student with whom I have been corresponding 
for more than a year), and Mr& Nishima, one of the science 
teachers. I arrived at 7:00 a&m& and by 9:00 a&m& I had 
finished breakfast and was on my way to see what they had planned. 
We walked miles and saw various shrines and gardens. We visited the 
Okamoto home- where for the first time I saw the famous tea ceremony. 
At 6:00 p&m& we went to the Kyoto Spring dances at the place 
where these beautiful dances originated. They were even better than 
those of Tokyo- more spectacular and more imaginative.   After 
a supper of <unagi> (rice with eel- eel which is raised in an 
ice-cold pond at the foot of Mt& Fuji), I returned to my beautiful 
room to sleep as hard as possible to be ready for another busy day. 
We started at 9 a&m& to visit the Kyoto University where Mr& 
Washizu is attending. I was amazed at the very poor hospital facilities 
accompanying the medical school. They apologized for the condition, 
including dirt and flies, and I was a little at a loss to know what 
to say. There seemed to be no excuse? I don't have the answer 
yet.   We had tea at Mr& Washizu's home where I learned 
that he, too, comes from a very wealthy family. His grandfather is 
a Buddhist priest; and he, being the eldest, was supposed to be a priest, 
but he chose to do differently, and one of his brothers is to become 
the priest. This is a significant fact in Japan, for only a few 
years ago he would have had no choice. In his big home live four families 
and thirty people, so it needs to be big. Also, there are housed 
here some priceless historical treasures from 400 to 600 years old- 
paintings, lacquer, brocade, etc&. He had displayed more of them 
than usual so that I could enjoy them. About 100 of the most important 
items he had already given to the museum. The house itself is 400 
years old with all the craftsmanship of older, less-hurried times. 

#NARA, 
OSAKA, AND HIROSHIMA#

Mr& Nishima went with me on the train 
to Nara. We passed his house and school on the way. In Nara I 
stayed at the hotel where the Prince and Princess had stayed on their 
honeymoon. A new red carpet had been laid for their coming, but I 
walked on it, too. Here Mr& Yoneda met us after a three-hour train 
trip from the town where he teaches. Even though we had walked miles 
in Kyoto that day, we started out again to see Nara at night.

In the evening both of the men went with me on the train 30 miles 
to Osaka to put me on the train for Hiroshima. Again the plan was 
for me to go alone, but they wouldn't let me. At Osaka, Mr& Yoneda 
had to leave us to get the train to his home, but Mr& Nishima 
and I had an hour and a half before train time to see Osaka at night. 
It is the second largest city in Japan, with about four million people. 
One spot in Osaka I shall always remember- the bridge where 
we stood to watch the reflections of the elaborate neon signs in the 
still waters of the river. In the midst of a great busy city, people 
take time to enjoy the beauty of natural reflection of artificial light.

My train arrived in Hiroshima at the awful hour of 4:45 
a&m&. I had planned to go to the hotel by taxi and sleep a little, 
after which Mr& Uno would arrive and pilot me around. But there 
he was at the train with an Oregon State pennant in his hand.

I know now why the students insisted that I go to Hiroshima even 
when I told them I didn't want to. They knew that I was still grieving 
over the tragic event, and they felt that if I could see the 
recovery 
and the spirit of the people, who hold no grudge, but who also 
regret Pearl Harbor, I would be happier and would understand better 
a new Japan. There were no words to say this but there was no need.

The teachers of Mr& Uno's school gave me a small gift 
to thank me for coming. Hiroshima is a better city than it was before- 
in the minds of the people I met was a strong determination for peace 
and understanding. I was grateful for their insight into my need 
for this experience. A better world may yet come out of Hiroshima. 

#TOKYO#

On arriving in Tokyo later we were met by Masu who took 
us immediately to her university, the Japanese Women's University. 
This day was "Open House for Parents" day, and the girls were 
busy preparing exhibits and arranging tea tables. Everything was in 
an exciting turmoil- full of anticipation and fun.   It was 
thrilling to see the effect of an American-trained teacher on Japanese 
students in a class in Home Planning. Our Masu is one of the very 
few architects in Japan who is trying to plan homes around family 
functions and women's needs. I am told the time will soon come when 
women will find it necessary to do most of their own work, and even now 
it is important to have conveniences for the use of servants. Many 
of the features of the homes are the latest modern devices in American 
homes, but an interesting blend of cultures finds us using Japanese 
artfulness in our own Western architecture at the same time that the 
Japanese are adopting Western utility patterns.   At this Women's 
University we find a monument to a courageous family who believed 
that Japanese women also should be educated. Even today there are 
some doubts about the value of education for Japanese women, but this 
University continues to grow and to send its students out into the 
community. Active alumnae have built a fine building on the campus 
where members can come and stay for a few days or longer and where they 
can have their social gatherings and professional meetings. As far 
as I am concerned there is continuous piling up of evidence that the 
creative fresh ideas which are needed in the world are going to be found 
by educated women unafraid to break traditions.   Masu is also 
teaching in a municipally-sponsored school for Japanese widows in Tokyo. 
Here the women learn to keep house as maids; they become skilled 
in cooking and cleaning and in receiving guests. They learn how 
to take care of children and sick members of the family. They have model 
kitchens, a sick room with a model patient in bed, and a nursery with 
a life-like doll. Although the training is only for one month, it 
is intensive and thorough. Graduates of this maid's school are much 
in demand and can always find work immediately. Occasionally they return 
for additional training. Masu's home economics training comes 
into play as she designs cupboards along modern functional lines for 
the storage of cleaning materials. Masu also uses the training she got 
in an American home where she learned to polish furniture, clean corners, 
and work effectively in keeping a shiny house. Her education in 
the United States, not just in a classroom, but also in an American 
house with an American housekeeper, stands her in good stead. 

#UNIVERSITY 
OF TOKYO#

After a fine luncheon in the cafeteria, the kitchen 
of which Masu had planned, Mr& Washizu and I left to meet representatives 
of the ~USIS for a visit to the University of Tokyo. 
Here again it was vacation time and there were many things I could 
not see, but I was able to visit with a professor who is famous 
in Japanese circles and be guided through the grounds by his assistant. 
The achievement of the desegregation of certain lunch counters not only 
by wise action by local community leaders but by voluntary action following 
consultation between Attorney General Rogers and the heads 
of certain national chain stores should, of course, be applauded. But 
for it to be just to attain this same result by means of the force of 
a boycott throughout the nation would require the verification of facts 
contrary to those assumed in the foregoing case. The suppositions 
in the previous illustration might be sufficiently altered by establishing 
a connection between general company practice and local practice 
in the South, and by establishing such direct connection between the 
practice and the economic well-being of stores located in New York 
and general company policy. Then the boycott would not be secondary, 
but a primary one. It would be directed against the actual location of 
the unjust policy which, for love's sake and for the sake of justice, 
must be removed, and, indivisible from this, to the economic injury 
of the people directly and objectively a part of this policy. Perhaps 
this would be sufficient to justify an economic boycott of an entire 
national chain in order, by threatening potential injury to its entire 
economy, to effect an alteration of the policy of its local stores 
in the matter of segregation. Such a general boycott might still be a 
blunt or indiscriminating instrument, and therefore of questionable 
justification. 
Action located where the evil is concentrated will prove 
most decisive and is most clearly legitimate. Moreover, prudence alone 
would indicate that, unless the local customs are already ready to 
fall when pushed, the results of direct economic action everywhere upon 
national chain stores will likely be simply to give undue advantage 
to local and state stores which conform to these customs, leading to 
greater decentralization and local autonomy within the company, or even 
(as the final self-defeat of an unjust application of economic pressure 
to correct injustice) to its going out of business in certain sections 
of the country (as, for that matter, the Quakers, who once had many 
meetings in the pre-Civil War South, largely went out of business 
in that part of the country over the slavery issue, never to recover 
a large number of southern adherents).   In any case, anyone who 
fails to make significant distinction between primary and secondary 
applications of economic pressure would in principle already have justified 
that use of economic boycott as a means which broke out a few years 
ago or was skillfully organized by White Citizens' Councils 
in the entire state of Mississippi against every local Philco dealer 
in that state, in protest against a Philco-sponsored program over a 
national ~TV network on which was presented a drama showing, it seemed, 
a "high yellow gal" smooching with a white man. It is true, 
of course, that the end or objective of this action was different. But 
since this is a world in which people disagree about ends and goals 
and concerning justice and injustice, and since, in a situation where 
direct action and economic pressure are called for, the justice of the 
matter has either not been clearly defined by law or the law is not 
effectively present, there has to be a <morality of means> applied in 
every case in which people take it upon themselves to use economic pressures 
or other forms of force.   the need that we not give unqualified 
approval to any but a limited use of economic pressure directed 
against the actual doers of injustice is clear also in light of the 
fact that White Citizens' Councils seem resolved to maintain segregation 
mainly by the use of these same means and not ordinarily by physical 
violence. An unlimited use of economic pressures for diametrically 
opposite causes could devastate the pre-conditions of any fellow 
humanity as surely as this would be destroyed by the use of more obviously 
brutal means. The end or aim of the action, of course, is also 
important, especially where it is not alone a matter of changing community 
customs but of the use of deadly economic power to intimidate a person 
from stepping forward to claim his legal rights, e&g&, against 
Negroes who register to vote in Fayette County, Tennessee, at the 
present moment. Here the recourse is in steps to give economic sustenance 
to those being despoiled, and to legal remedies. This, however, 
is sufficient to show that more or less non-violent resistance and 
economic conflict (if both sides are strong enough) can be war of all 
against all no less than if other means are used. It is also sufficient 
to show the Christian and any other champion of justice that he needs 
to make sure not only that his cause is just but also that his <conduct> 
is just, i&e&, that, if economic pressure has to be resorted 
to, this be applied directly against those persons directly in the 
way of some salutary change in business or institutional practices, while, 
if injury fall upon others, it fall upon them indirectly and secondarily 
(however inevitably) and not by deliberate intent and direct 
action against them.   It is clear that non-violent resistance is 
a mode of action in need of justification and limitation in Christian 
morality, like any other form of resistance. The <language> used 
itself often makes very clear that this is only another form of struggle 
for victory (perhaps to be chosen above all others). One of the sit-in 
leaders has said: "Nobody from the top of Heaven to the bottom 
of Hell can stop the march to freedom. Everybody in the world today 
might as well make up their minds to march with freedom or freedom 
is going to march over them". The present writer certainly agrees 
with that statement, and would also affirm this- in the order of justice. 
However, it is also a Christian insight to know that unless charity 
interpenetrates justice it is not likely to be freedom that marches 
forward. And when charity interpenetrates man's struggle for justice 
and freedom it does not simply surround this with a sentimental 
good will. It also definitely fashions conduct in the way explained 
above, and this means far more than in the choice of non-violent 
means. 
R& B& Gregg has written that "non-violence and good will of 
the victim act like the lack of physical opposition by the user of physical 
jiu-jitsu, to cause the attacker to lose his moral balance. He 
suddenly and unexpectedly loses the moral support which the usual violent 
resistance of most victims would render him"; and again, that 
"the object of non-violent resistance is partly analogous to this object 
of war- namely, to demoralize the opponent, to break his will, 
to destroy his confidence, enthusiasm, and hope. In another respect 
it is dissimilar, for non-violent resistance demoralizes the opponent 
only to re-establish in him a new morale that is firmer because it is 
based on sounder values".   A trial of strength, however, is made 
quite inevitable by virtue of the fact that anyone engaging in non-violent 
resistance will be convinced that his action is based on sounder 
values than those of his opponent; and in warfare with any means, 
men commonly disagree over the justice of the cause. This makes necessary 
a morality of means, and principles governing the <conduct> of 
resistance whenever this is thought to be justified. The question, 
then, is whether sufficient discrimination in the use of even non-violent 
means of coercion is to be found in the fact that such conduct demoralizes 
and overcomes the opponent while re-moralizing and re-establishing 
him. Here it is relevant to remember that men commonly regard some 
causes as more important than their lives; and to them it will seem 
insignificant that it is proposed to defeat such causes non-violently. 
A technique by which it is proposed to enter with compulsion into 
the very heart of a man and determine his values may often in fact seem 
the more unlimited aggression.   Among Christian groups, the 
Mennonites have commonly been aware more than others of the fact that 
the nature of divine charity raises decisively the question of the 
Christian use of all forms of pressure. Since the will and word of God 
are for them concentrated in Christlike love, it seems clear to them 
that non-violent resistance is quite another thing. "The primary 
objective of non-violence", writes the outstanding Mennonite ethicist, 
"is not peace, or obedience to the divine will, but rather certain 
desired social changes, for personal, or class, or national advantage". 
Without agreeing with every phrase in this statement, we must 
certainly assert the great difference between Christian love and any 
form of resistance, and then go on beyond the Mennonite position and 
affirm that Christian love-in-action must first justify and then determine 
the moral principles limiting resistance. These principles we 
have now set forth. <Economy> in the use of power needs not only to 
be asserted, but clearly specified; and when this is done it will 
be found that the principles governing Christian resistance cut across 
the distinction between violent and non-violent means, and apply to 
both alike, justifying either on occasion and always limiting either action. 
Economy in the use of power means more than inflicting a 
<barely 
intolerable> pressure upon an opponent and upon the injustice opposed. 
That would amount to calculating the means and justifying them wholly 
in terms of their effectiveness in reaching desired goals. There 
must also be additional and more fundamental discrimination in the use 
of means of resistance, violent or non-violent. The justification 
in Christian conscience of the use of any mode of resistance also lays 
down its limitation- in the distinction between the persons against 
whom pressure is primarily directed, those upon whom it may be permitted 
also to fall, and those who may never be directly repressed for the 
sake even of achieving some great good. In these terms, the "economic 
withdrawal" of the Negroes of Nashville, Tennessee, from trading 
in the center city, for example, was clearly justified, since these 
distinctions do not require that only people subjectively guilty be 
singled out.   We may now take up for consideration a hard case 
which seems to require either no action employing economic pressure 
or else action that would seem to violate the principles set forth above. 
There may be instances in which, if economic pressure is to be undertaken 
at all, this would have to be applied without discrimination 
against a whole people. An excellent article was published recently in 
the journal of the Church Peace Union by a South African journalist 
on the inhuman economic conditions of the blacks in South Africa, 
amounting to virtual slavery, and the economic <complicity> of both 
the government and the people of the United States in these conditions. 
"**h Billions of American dollars, not only from capital investors 
but also from the pockets of U& S& taxpayers", this author 
states, "are being poured into South Africa to support a system 
dedicated to the oppression, the persecution, and the almost diabolical 
exploitation of 12 million people the color of whose skins happens 
not to be white". Both the conditions and the complicity are documented 
in considerable detail. This leads to the conclusion that "the 
fact is inescapable that America does have a say in whether or not 
<apartheid> shall continue". Our leadership in a wide economic 
boycott of South Africa would be not only in accord, it seems, with 
the moral conscience of America, not to be denied because we also as 
a people have widespread injustice in the relations of the races in our 
own country, but also in accord with our law, U&S& Code Title 
19, Section 1307, which forbids the importation of goods made by forced 
or convict labor. Not only should this provision be enforced but 
other economic and political actions might be taken which, this author 
believes, "must surely be supported by every American who values the 
freedom that has been won for him and whose conscience is not so dominated 
by the lines in his account books that he can willingly and knowingly 
contribute to the enslavement of another nation".

NORTHERN liberals are the chief supporters of civil rights 
and of integration. They have also led the nation in the direction 
of a welfare state. And both in their objectives of non-discrimination 
and of social progress they have had ranged against them the Southerners 
who are called Bourbons. The name presumably derives from the 
French royal house which never learned and never forgot; since Bourbon 
whiskey, though of Kentucky origin, is at least as much favored 
by liberals in the North as by conservatives in the South.   The 
nature of the opposition between liberals and Bourbons is too little 
understood in the North. The race problem has tended to obscure other, 
less emotional, issues which may fundamentally be even more divisive. 
It is these other differences between North and South- other, 
that is, than those which concern discrimination or social welfare- 
which I chiefly discuss herein.   I write about Northern liberals 
from considerable personal experience. A Southerner married to 
a New Englander, I have lived for many years in a Connecticut commuting 
town with a high percentage of artists, writers, publicity men, 
and business executives of egghead tastes. Most of them are Democrats 
and nearly all consider themselves, and are viewed as, liberals. This 
is puzzling to an outsider conscious of the classic tradition of 
liberalism, because it is clear that these Democrats who are left-of-center 
are at opposite poles from the liberal Jefferson, who held that 
the best government was the least government. Yet paradoxically my 
liberal 
friends continue to view Jefferson as one of their patron saints. 
When I question them as to what they mean by concepts like liberty and 
democracy, I find that they fall into two categories: the simpler 
ones who have simply accepted the shibboleths of their faith without 
analysis; and the intelligent, cynical ones who scornfully reply that 
these things don't count any more in the world of to-day. I am naive, 
they say, to make use of such words.   I take this to mean 
that the intelligent- and therefore necessarily cynical?- liberal 
considers that the need for a national economy with controls that will 
assure his conception of social justice is so great that individual 
and local liberties as well as democratic processes may have to yield 
before it. This seems like an attitude favoring a sort of totalitarian 
bureaucracy which, under a President of the same stamp, would try 
to coerce an uncooperative Congress or Supreme Court. As for states' 
rights, they have never counted in the thinking of my liberal friends 
except as irritations of a minor and immoral nature which exist 
now only as anachronisms.   The American liberal may, in the world 
of to-day, have a strong case; but he presents it publicly so enmeshed 
in hypocrisy that it is not an honest one. Why, in the first place, 
call himself a liberal if he is against <laissez-faire> and favors 
an authoritarian central government with womb-to-tomb controls over 
everybody? If he attaches little importance to personal liberty, 
why not make this known to the world? And if he is so scornful of 
the rights of states, why not advocate a different sort of constitution 
that he could more sincerely support?   I am concerned here, 
however, with the Northern liberal's attitude toward the South. It 
appears to be one of intense dislike, which he makes little effort 
to conceal even in the presence of Southern friends. His assumption 
seems to be that any such friends, being tolerable humans, must be more 
liberal than most Southerners and therefore at least partly in sympathy 
with his views. <Time's> editor, Thomas Griffith, in his book, 
<The Waist-High Culture>, wrote: "**h most of what was 
different about it (the Deep South) I found myself unsympathetic to 
**h". This, for the liberals I know, would be an understatement. 
Theirs is no mere lack of sympathy, but something closer to the passionate 
hatred that was directed against Fascism.   I do not think 
that my experience would be typical for Southerners living in the 
North. In business circles, usually conservative, this sort of atmosphere 
would hardly be found. But in our case- and neither my wife nor 
I have extreme views on integration, nor are we given to emotional 
outbursts- the situation has ruined one or two valued friendships and 
come close to wrecking several more. In fact it has caused us to give 
serious thought to moving our residence south, because it is not easy 
for the most objective Southerner to sit calmly by when his host 
is telling a roomful of people that the only way to deal with Southerners 
who oppose integration is to send in troops and shoot the bastards 
down.   Accounts have been published of Northern liberals in 
the South up against segregationist prejudice, especially in state-supported 
universities where pressure may be strong to uphold the majority 
view. But these accounts do not show that Northerners have been subjected 
to embarrassment or provocation by Yankee-hatred displayed in 
social gatherings. From my wife's experience and other sources, this 
seems to be rarely encountered in educated circles. The strong feeling 
is certainly there; but there is a leavening of liberalism among 
college graduates throughout the South, especially among those who 
studied in the North. And social relations arising out of business 
ties impose courtesy, if not sympathy, toward resident and visiting Northerners. 
Also, among the latter a large percentage soon acquire the 
prevalent Southern attitude on most social problems.   There 
are of course many Souths; but for this discussion the most important 
division is between those who have been reconstructed and those who 
haven't. My definition of this much abused adjective is that a reconstructed 
rebel is one who is glad that the North won the War. Nobody 
knows how many Southerners there are in this category. I suspect 
that there are far more unreconstructed ones than the North likes to 
believe. I never heard of a poll being taken on the question. No doubt 
such a thing would be considered unpatriotic. Prior to 1954 I imagine 
that a majority of Southerners would have voted against the Confederacy. 
Since the Supreme Court's decision of that year this is 
more doubtful; and if a poll had been taken immediately following 
the dispatch of troops to Little Rock I believe the majority would 
have been for the Old South.   Belief in the traditional way of 
life persists much more in the older states than in the new ones. Probably 
a larger percentage of Virginians and South Carolinians remain 
unreconstructed than elsewhere, with Georgia, North Carolina, and 
Alabama following along after them. Old attitudes are held more tenaciously 
in the Tidewater than the Piedmont; so that a line running 
down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater 
would roughly divide the Old South from the new, but with, of course, 
important minority enclaves.   The long-settled areas of states 
like Virginia and South Carolina developed the ante-bellum culture 
to its richest flowering, and there the memory is more precious, and 
the consciousness of loss the greater. Also, we should not even to-day 
discount the fact that a region such as the coastal lowlands centering 
on Charleston had closer ties with England and the West Indies 
than with the North even after independence. The social and psychological 
consequences of this continue to affect the area. In certain 
respects defeat increased the persistent Anglophilia of the Old South. 
Poor where they had once been rich, humbled where they had been 
arrogant, having no longer any hope of sharing in the leadership of the 
nation, the rebels who would not surrender in spirit drew comfort from 
the sympathy they felt extended to them by the mother country. And 
no doubt many people in states like the Carolinas and Georgia, which 
were among the most Tory in sentiment in the eighteenth century, bitterly 
regretted the revolt against the Crown.   Among Bourbons 
the racial issue may have less to do with their remaining unreconstructed 
than other factors. All Southerners agree that slavery had to 
go; but many historians maintain that except for Northern meddling 
it would have ended in states like Virginia years before it did. Southern 
resentment has been over the method of its ending, the invasion, 
and Reconstruction; their fears now are of miscegenation and Negro 
political control in many counties. But apart from racial problems, 
the old unreconstructed South- to use the moderate words favored by 
Mr& Thomas Griffith- finds itself unsympathetic to most of what 
is different about the civilization of the North. And this, in effect, 
means most of modern America.   It is hard to see how the 
situation could be otherwise. And therein, I feel, many Northerners 
delude themselves about the South. For one thing, this is not a subject 
often discussed or analyzed. There seems to be almost a conspiracy 
of silence veiling it. I suppose the reason is a kind of wishful 
thinking: don't talk about the final stages of Reconstruction and 
they will take care of themselves. Or else the North really believes 
that all Southerners except a few quaint old characters have come 
around to realizing the errors of their past, and are now at heart sharers 
of the American Dream, like everybody else.   If the circumstances 
are faced frankly it is not reasonable to expect this to be 
true. The situation of the South since 1865 has been unique in the western 
world. Regardless of rights and wrongs, a population and an area 
appropriate to a pre-World-War-/1, great power have been, following 
conquest, 
ruled against their will by a neighboring people, and have had 
imposed upon them social and economic controls they dislike. And the 
great majority of these people are of Anglo-Saxon or Celtic descent. 
This is the only case in modern history of a people of Britannic 
origin submitting without continued struggle to what they view as foreign 
domination. The fact is due mainly to international wars, both hot 
and cold. In every war of the United States since the Civil War 
the South was more belligerent than the rest of the country. So instead 
of being tests of the South's loyalty, the Spanish War, the 
two World Wars, and the Korean War all served to overcome old grievances 
and cement reunion. And there is no section of the nation more 
ardent than the South in the cold war against Communism. Had the 
situation been reversed, had, for instance, England been the enemy in 
1898 because of issues of concern chiefly to New England, there is 
little doubt that large numbers of Southerners would have happily put 
on their old Confederate uniforms to fight as allies of Britain. It 
is extraordinary that a people as proud and warlike as Southerners 
should have been as docile as they have. The North should thank its 
stars that such has been the case; but at the same time it should not 
draw false inferences therefrom.   The two main charges levelled 
against the Bourbons by liberals is that they are racists and social 
reactionaries. There is much truth in both these charges, and not 
many Bourbons deny them. Whatever their faults, they are not hypocrites. 
Most of them sincerely believe that the Anglo-Saxon is the best 
race in the world and that it should remain pure. Many Northeners 
believe this, too, but few of them will say so publicly. The Bourbon 
economic philosophy, moreover, is not very different from that of Northern 
conservatives. But those among the Bourbons who remain unreconstructed 
go much further than this. They believe that if the South 
had been let alone it would have produced a civilization superior to that 
of modern America. As it is, they consider that the North is now 
reaping the fruits of excess egalitarianism, that in spite of its high 
standard of living the "American way" has been proved inferior 
to the English and Scandinavian ways, although they disapprove of the 
socialistic features of the latter.   The South's antipathy 
to Northern civilization includes such charges as poor manners, harsh 
accents, lack of appreciation of the arts of living like gastronomy 
and the use of leisure. Their own easier, slower tempo is especially 
dear to Southerners; and I have heard many say that they are content 
to earn a half or a third as much as they could up North because 
they so much prefer the quieter habits of their home town.

In the past, the duties of the state, as Sir Henry Maine noted 
long ago, were only two in number: internal order and external security. 
By prevailing over other claimants for the loyalties of men, 
the nation-state maintained an adequate measure of certainty and order 
within its territorial borders. Outside those limits it asserted, as 
against other states, a position of sovereign equality, and, as against 
the "inferior" peoples of the non-Western world, a position of 
dominance. It became the sole "subject" of "international law" 
(a term which, it is pertinent to remember, was coined by Bentham), 
a body of legal principle which by and large was made up of what Western 
nations could do in the world arena. (That corpus of law was a 
reflection of the power system in existence during the eighteenth and 
nineteenth centuries. Speaking generally, it furthered- and still 
tends to further- the interests of the Western powers. The enormous 
changes in world politics have, however, thrown it into confusion, so 
much so that it is safe to say that all international law is now in 
need of reexamination and clarification in light of the social conditions 
of the present era.)   Beyond the two basic tasks mentioned 
above, no attention was paid by statesman or scholar to an idea of state 
responsibility, either internally or externally. This was particularly 
true in the world arena, which was an anarchical battleground characterized 
by strife and avaricious competition for colonial empires. 
That any sort of duty was owed by his nation to other nations would have 
astonished a nineteenth-century statesman. His duty was to his sovereign 
and to his nation, and an extension to peoples beyond the territorial 
boundaries was not to be contemplated. Thus, to cite but one 
example, the <Pax Britannica> of the nineteenth century, whether with 
the British navy ruling the seas or with the City of London ruling 
world finance, was strictly national in motivation, however much other 
nations (e&g&, the United States) may have incidentally benefited. 
At the same time, all suggestions that some sort of societal 
responsibility existed for the welfare of the people within the territorial 
state was strongly resisted. Social Darwinism was able to stave 
off the incipient socialist movement until well into the present century.

However, in recent decades, for what doubtless are multiple 
reasons, an unannounced but nonetheless readily observable shift has 
occurred in both facets of national activity. A concept of responsibility 
is in process of articulation and establishment. Already firmly 
implanted internally, it is a growing factor in external matters. 
##

A little more than twenty years ago the American people turned 
an important corner. In what has aptly been called a "constitutional 
revolution", the basic nature of government was transformed from 
one essentially negative in nature (the "night-watchman state") to 
one with affirmative duties to perform. The "positive state" came 
into existence. For lawyers, reflecting perhaps their parochial preferences, 
there has been a special fascination since then in the role 
played by the Supreme Court in that transformation- the manner in 
which its decisions altered in "the switch in time that saved nine", 
President Roosevelt's ill-starred but in effect victorious "Court-packing 
plan", the imprimatur of judicial approval that was 
finally placed upon social legislation. Of greater importance, however, 
is the content of those programs, which have had and are having enormous 
consequences for the American people. Labor relations have been 
transformed, income security has become a standardized feature of political 
platforms, and all the many facets of the American version of 
the welfare state have become part of the conventional wisdom. A national 
consensus of near unanimity exists that these governmental efforts 
are desirable as well as necessary. Ratified in the Republican Party 
victory in 1952, the Positive State is now evidenced by political 
campaigns being waged not on <whether> but on <how much> social 
legislation there should be.   The general acceptance of the idea 
of governmental (i&e&, societal) responsibility for the economic 
well-being of the American people is surely one of the two most significant 
watersheds in American constitutional history. The other, of 
course, was the Civil War, the conflict which a century ago insured 
national unity over fragmentation. A third, one of at least equal and 
perhaps even greater importance, is now being traversed: American 
immersion and involvement in world affairs.   Internal national 
responsibility, now a truism, need not be documented. Nevertheless, 
it may be helpful to cite one example- that of employment- for, as 
will be shown below, it cuts across both facets of the new concept. Thirty 
years ago, while the nation was wallowing in economic depression, 
the prevailing philosophy of government was to stand aside and allow 
"natural forces" to operate and cure the distress. That guiding 
principle of the Hoover Administration fell to the siege guns of the 
New Deal; less than a score of years later Congress enacted the 
Employment Act of 1946, by which the national government assumed the 
responsibility of taking action to insure conditions of maximum employment. 
Hands-off the economy was replaced by conscious guidance through 
planning- the economic side of the constitutional revolution. In 
1961 the first important legislative victory of the Kennedy Administration 
came when the principle of <national> responsibility for <local> 
economic distress won out over a "state's-responsibility" 
proposal- provision was made for payment for unemployment relief 
by nation-wide taxation rather than by a levy only on those states afflicted 
with manpower surplus. The American people have indeed come 
a long way in the brief interval between 1930 and 1961.   Internal 
national responsibility is a societal response to the impact of the 
Industrial Revolution. Reduced to its simplest terms, it is an assumption 
of a collective duty to compensate for the inability of individuals 
to cope with the rigors of the era. National responsibility for 
individual welfare is a concept not limited to the United States or 
even to the Western nations. A measure of its widespread acceptance 
may be derived from a statement of the International Congress of Jurists 
in 1959. Meeting in New Delhi under the auspices of the International 
Commission of Jurists, a body of lawyers from the free world, 
the Congress redefined and expanded the traditional Rule of Law 
to include affirmative governmental duties. It is noteworthy that 
the majority of the delegates to the Congress were from the less developed, 
former colonial nations. The Rule of Law, historically a principle 
according everyone his "day in court" before an impartial tribunal, 
was broadened substantively by making it a responsibility of 
government to promote individual welfare. Recognizing that the Rule 
of Law is "a dynamic concept **h which should be employed not only 
to safeguard the civil and political rights of the individual in a free 
society", the Congress asserted that it also included the responsibility 
"to establish social, economic, educational and cultural conditions 
under which his legitimate aspirations and dignity may be realized". 
The idea of national responsibility thus has become a common 
feature of the nations of the non-Soviet world. For better or for worse, 
we all now live in welfare states, the organizing principle of which 
is collective responsibility for individual well-being.   Whether 
a concept analogous to the principle of internal responsibility 
operates in a nation's external relations is less obvious and more 
difficult to establish. The hypothesis ventured here is that it does, 
and that evidence is accumulating validating that proposition. The content 
is not the same, however: rather than individual security, it 
is the security and continuing existence of an "ideological group"- 
those in the "free world"- that is basic. External national 
responsibility involves a burgeoning requirement that the leaders of 
the Western nations so guide their decisions as to further the viability 
of other friendly nations. If internal responsibility suggests acceptance 
of the socialist ideal of equality, then external responsibility 
implies adherence to principles of ideological supranationalism.

Reference to two other concepts- nationalism and sovereignty- 
may help to reveal the contours of the new principle. In its beginnings 
the nation-state had to struggle to assert itself- internally, 
against feudal groups, and externally, against the power and influence 
of such other claimants for loyalty as the Church. The breakup of 
the Holy Roman Empire and the downfall of feudalism led, not more 
than two centuries ago, to the surge of nationalism. (Since the time-span 
of the nation-state coincides roughly with the separate existence 
of the United States as an independent entity, it is perhaps natural 
for Americans to think of the nation as representative of the highest 
form of order, something permanent and unchanging.) The concept of 
nationalism is the political principle that epitomizes and glorifies 
the territorial state as the characteristic type of socal structure. But 
it is more than that. For it includes the emotional ties that bind 
men to their homeland and the complex motivations that hold a large 
group of people together as a unit. Today, as new nations rise from 
the former colonial empires, nationalism is one of the hurricane forces 
loose in the world. Almost febrile in intensity, the principle has 
become worldwide in application- unfortunately at the very time that 
nationalist fervors can wreak greatest harm. Historically, however, 
the concept is one that has been of marked benefit to the people of the 
Western civilizational group. By subduing disparate lesser groups 
the nation has, to some degree at least, broadened the capacity for individual 
liberty. Within their confines, moreover, technological and 
industrial growth has proceeded at an accelerated pace, thus increasing 
the cornucopia from which material wants can be satisfied. While the 
pattern is uneven, some having gained more than others, nationalism 
has in fact served the Western peoples well. (Whether historical nationalism 
helped the peoples of the remainder of the world, and whether 
today's nationalism in the former colonial areas has equally beneficial 
aspects, are other questions.)   It is one of the ironic quirks 
of history that the viability and usefulness of nationalism and the 
territorial state are rapidly dissipating at precisely the time that 
the nation-state attained its highest number (approximately 100). But 
it is more than irony: one of the main reasons why nationalism is 
no longer a tenable concept is <because> it has spread throughout the 
planet. In other words, nationalism worked well enough when it had 
limited application, both as to geography and as to population; it 
becomes a perilous anachronism when adopted on a world-wide basis.

Complementing the political principle of nationalism is the legal 
principle of sovereignty. The former receives its legitimacy from the 
latter. Operating side by side, together they helped shore up the nation-state. 
While sovereignty has roots in antiquity, in its present 
usage it is essentially modern. Jean Bodin, writing in the sixteenth 
century, may have been the seminal thinker, but it was the vastly influential 
John Austin who set out the main lines of the concept as now 
understood. Austin's nineteenth-century view of law and sovereignty 
still dominates much of today's legal and political thinking. To 
him, law is the command of the sovereign (the English monarch) who 
personifies the power of the nation, while sovereignty is the power to 
make law- i&e&, to prevail over internal groups and to be free 
from the commands of other sovereigns in other nations. These fundamental 
ideas- the indivisibility of sovereignty and its dual (internal-external) 
aspects- still remain the core of that concept of ultimate 
political power.   The nation-state, then, exemplifies the principle 
of nationalism and exercises sovereignty: supreme power over 
domestic affairs and independence from outside control. In fact, however, 
both principles have always been nebulous and loosely defined. High-level 
abstractions are always difficult to pin down with precision. 
That is particularly true of sovereignty when it is applied to democratic 
societies, in which "popular" sovereignty is said to exist, 
and in federal nations, in which the jobs of government are split. Nevertheless, 
nationalism and sovereignty are reputed, in the accepted 
wisdom, to describe the modern world. Is there a different reality behind 
the facade? Does the surface hide a quite different picture?

The short answer to those questions is "yes". Both concepts 
are undergoing alteration; to some degree they are being supplanted 
by a concept of national responsibility. As evidence to support 
that view, consider the following illustrative instances. 
Can thermonuclear war be set off by accident? What steps have been 
taken to guard against the one sort of mishap that could trigger the 
destruction of continents? Are we as safe as we should be from such 
a disaster? Is anything being done to increase our margin of safety? 
Will the danger increase or decrease?   I have just asked 
these questions in the Pentagon, in the White House, in offices of 
key scientists across the country and aboard the submarines that prowl 
for months underwater, with neat rows of green launch tubes which contain 
Polaris missiles and which are affectionately known as "Sherwood 
Forest". I asked the same questions inside the launch-control 
rooms of an Atlas missile base in Wyoming, where officers who wear 
sidearms are manning the "commit buttons" that could start a war- 
accidentally or by design- and in the command centers where other 
pistol-packing men could give orders to push such buttons.   To 
the men in the instrument-jammed bomber cockpits, submarine compartments 
and the antiseptic, windowless rooms that would be the foxholes of 
tomorrow's impersonal intercontinental wars, the questions seem farfetched. 
There is unceasing pressure, but its sources are immediate. 
"Readiness exercises" are almost continuous. Each could be the real 
thing.   In the command centers there are special clocks ready 
to tick off the minutes elapsed since "~E hour". "~E" 
stands for "execution"- the moment a "go order" would unleash 
an American nuclear strike. There is little time for the men in the 
command centers to reflect about the implications of these clocks. 
They are preoccupied riding herd on control panels, switches, flashing 
colored lights on pale green or gray consoles that look like business 
machines. They know little about their machinery beyond mechanical 
details. Accidental war is so sensitive a subject that most of the people 
who could become directly involved in one are told just enough so 
they can perform their portions of incredibly complex tasks.   Among 
the policy makers, generals, physicists, psychologists and others 
charged with controlling the actions of the button pushers and their 
"hardware", the answers to my questions varied partly according to 
a man's flair for what the professionals in this field call "scenarios". 
As an Air Force psychiatrist put it: "You can't have 
dry runs on this one". The experts are thus forced to hypothesize 
sequences of events that have never occurred, probably never will- 
but possibly might. Only one rule prevailed in my conversations with 
these men: The more highly placed they are- that is, the more they 
know- the more concerned they have become.   Already accidental 
war is a silent guest at the discussions within the Kennedy Administration 
about the urgency of disarmament and nearly all other questions 
of national security. Only recently new "holes" were 
discovered in our safety measures, and a search is now on for more. Work 
is under way to see whether new restraining devices should be installed 
on all nuclear weapons.   Meanwhile, the experts speak of 
wars triggered by "false pre-emption", "escalation", "unauthorized 
behavior" and other terms that will be discussed in this report. 
They inhabit a secret world centered on "go codes" and "gold 
phones". Their conversations were, almost invariably, accompanied 
by the same gestures- arms and pointed forefingers darting toward 
each other in arclike semicircular motions. One arm represented our bombers 
and missiles, the other arm "theirs". Yet implicit in each 
movement was the death of millions, perhaps hundreds of millions, perhaps 
you and me- and the experts.   These men are not callous. 
It is their job to think about the unthinkable. Unanimously they believe 
that the world would become a safer place if more of us- and more 
Russians and Communist Chinese, too- thought about accidental 
war.   The first systematic thinking about this Pandora's box 
within Pandora's boxes was done four years ago by Fred Ikle, a 
frail, meek-mannered Swiss-born sociologist. He was, and is, with the 
~RAND Corporation, a nonprofit pool of thinkers financed by the 
U& S& Air Force. His investigations made him the Paul Revere 
of accidental war, and safety procedures were enormously increased.

In recent weeks, as a result of a sweeping defense policy reappraisal 
by the Kennedy Administration, basic United States strategy 
has been modified- and large new sums allocated- to meet the accidental-war 
danger and to reduce it as quickly as possible.   The 
chain starts at ~BMEWS (Ballistic Missile Early Warning 
System) in Thule, Greenland. Its radar screens would register Soviet 
missiles shortly after they are launched against the United States. 
~BMEWS intelligence is simultaneously flashed to ~NORAD 
(North American Air Defense Command) in Colorado Springs, 
Colorado, for interpretation; to the ~SAC command and control 
post, forty-five feet below the ground at Offutt Air Force Base, near 
Omaha, Nebraska; to the Joint War Room of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff in the Pentagon and to the President.   Telephones, 
Teletypes, several kinds of radio systems and, in some cases, television, 
link all vital points. Alternate locations exist for all key command 
centers. For last-ditch emergencies ~SAC has alternate command 
posts on ~KC-135 jet tankers. Multiple circuits, routings and 
frequencies make the chain as unbreakable as possible.   The 
same principle of "redundancy" applies to all communications on these 
special networks. And no messages can be transmitted on these circuits 
until senders and receivers authenticate in advance, by special 
codes, 
that the messages actually come from their purported sources. Additional 
codes can be used to challenge and counterchallenge the authentications.

Only the President is permitted to authorize the 
use of nuclear weapons. That's the law. But what if somebody decides 
to break it? The President cannot personally remove the safety 
devices from every nuclear trigger. He makes the momentous decision. 
Hundreds of men are required to pass the word to the button pushers 
and to push the buttons. What if one or more of them turn irrational 
or suddenly, coolly, decide to clobber the Russians? What if the President 
himself, in the language of the military, "goes ape"? 
Or singlehandedly decided to reverse national policy and hit the Soviets 
without provocation?   Nobody can be absolutely certain of 
the answers. However, the system is designed, ingeniously and hopefully, 
so that no one man could initiate a thermonuclear war.   Even 
the President cannot pick up his telephone and give a "go" order. 
Even he does not know the one signal for a nuclear strike- the 
"go code". In an emergency he would receive available intelligence 
on the "gold-phone circuit". A system of "gold"- actually 
yellow- phones connects him with the offices and action stations of 
the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the ~SAC 
commander and other key men. All can be connected with the gold circuit 
from their homes. All could help the President make his decision. 
The talk would not be in code, but neither would it ramble. Vital 
questions would be quickly answered according to a preprepared agenda. 
Officers who participate in the continual practice drills assured 
me that the President's decision could be made and announced on the 
gold circuit within minutes after the first flash from ~BMEWS.

If communications work, his decision would be instantly known 
in all command posts that would originate the actual go order. For 
these centers, too, are on the gold circuit. They include the Navy's 
Atlantic Command at Norfolk, Virginia, which is in contact with 
the Polaris subs; ~NATO headquarters in Europe; Air Force 
forward headquarters in Europe and in the Pacific, which control 
tactical fighters on ships and land bases; and ~SAC, which controls 
long-range bombers and Atlas missiles.   Let us look in on 
one of these nerve centers- ~SAC at Omaha- and see what must 
still happen before a wing of ~B-52 bombers could drop their ~H-bombs.

In a word, plenty. The key man almost certainly would 
be Col& William W& Wisman, ~SAC's senior controller. He 
or his deputy or one of their seven assistants, all full colonels, 
mans the heart of the command post twenty-four hours a day. It is a quiet 
but impressive room- 140 feet long, thirty-nine feet wide, twenty-one 
feet high. Movable panels of floor-to-ceiling maps and charts 
are crammed with intelligence information. And Bill Wisman, forty-three, 
a farmer's son from Beallsville, Ohio, is a quiet but impressive 
man. His eyes are steady anchors of the deepest brown. His movements 
and speech are precise, clear and quick. No question ruffles him 
or causes him to hesitate.   Wisman, who has had the chief controller's 
job for four years, calls the signals for a team operating 
three rows of dull-gray consoles studded with lights, switches and buttons. 
At least a dozen men, some armed, are never far away from him. 
In front of him is a gold phone. In emergencies the ~SAC commander, 
Gen& Thomas Power, or his deputies and their staff would occupy 
a balcony that stretches across the length of the room above Wisman 
and his staff. At General Power's seat in the balcony there is 
also a gold phone. General Power would participate in the decision 
making. Wisman, below, would listen in and act. His consoles can give 
him instant contact with more than seventy bases around the world and 
with every ~SAC aircraft.   He need only pick up one of 
the two red telephone receivers at his extreme left, right next to the 
big red button marked ALERT. (There are two receivers in case 
one should be dropped and damaged.)   But Wisman, too, does not 
know the go code. He must take it from "the red box". In point 
of fact, this is a beige box with a bright red door, about one and a half 
feet square and hung from the wall about six feet from the door to 
Wisman's right. The box is internally wired so the door can never 
be opened without setting off a screeching klaxon ("It's real obnoxious").

Now we must become vague, for we are approaching 
one of the nation's most guarded secrets. The codes in the red box- 
there are several of them covering various contingencies- are contained 
in a sealed ~X-ray-proof "unique device". They are supplied, 
a batch at a time, by a secret source and are continually changed 
by Wisman or his staff, at random intervals.   But even the contents 
of Wisman's box cannot start a war. They are mere fragments, 
just one portion of preprepared messages. What these fragments are 
and how they activate the go order may not be revealed. The pieces must 
be placed in the context of the prepared messages by Wisman's staff. 
In addition to the authentication and acknowledgment procedures 
which precede and follow the sending of the go messages, again in special 
codes, each message also contains an "internal authenticator", 
another specific signal to convince the recipient that he is getting 
the real thing.   I asked Wisman what would happen if he broke 
out the go codes and tried to start transmitting one. "I'd wind 
up full of .38 bullet holes", he said, and there was no question that 
he was talking about bullets fired by his coworkers.   Now let 
us imagine a wing of ~B-52's, on alert near their "positive control 
(or fail-safe) points", the spots on the map, many miles from 
Soviet territory, beyond which they are forbidden to fly without specific 
orders to proceed to their targets. They, too, have fragments of 
the go code with them. As Wisman put it, "They have separate pieces 
of the pie, and we have the whole pie. Once we send out the whole 
pie, they can put their pieces into it. Unless we send out the whole 
pie, their pieces mean nothing". Why does Wisman's ever-changing 
code always mesh with the fragments in possession of the button pushers? 
The answer is a cryptographic secret. At any rate, three 
men out of a six-man ~B-52 crew are required to copy down Wisman's 
go-to-war message. Each must match Wisman's "pie" with the 
fragment that he carries with him. All three must compare notes and agree 
to "go". ##

After that, it requires several minutes of concentrated 
work, including six separate and deliberate actions by a minimum 
of three men sitting at three separate stations in a bomber, each 
with another man beside him to help, for an armed bomb to be released. 
Unless all gadgets are properly operated- and the wires and seals 
from the handles removed first- no damage can be done.

Suddenly, however, their posture changed and the game ended. They 
went as rigid as black statuary **h six figures, lean and tall and 
angular, went still. Their heads were in the air sniffing. They all 
swung at the same instant in the same direction. They saw it before 
I did, even with my binoculars. It was nothing more than a tiny distant 
rain squall, a dull gray sheet which reached from a layer of clouds 
to the earth. In the 360 degrees of horizon it obscured only a degree, 
no more. A white man would not have seen it. The aborigines fastened 
upon it with a concentration beyond pathos. Watching, they waited 
until the squall thickened and began to move in a long drifting slant 
across the dry burning land. At once the whole band set off at a lope. 
They were chasing a rain cloud.   They went after the squall 
as mercilessly as a wolf pack after an abandoned cow. I followed them 
in the jeep and now they did not care. The games were over, this 
was life. Occasionally, for no reason that I could see, they would suddenly 
alter the angle of their trot. Sometimes I guessed it was because 
the rain squall had changed direction. Sometimes it was to skirt 
a gulley. Their gait is impossible to convey in words. It has nothing 
of the proud stride of the trained runner about it, it is not a lope, 
it is not done with style or verve. It is the gait of the human who 
must run to live: arms dangling, legs barely swinging over the ground, 
head hung down and only occasionally swinging up to see the target, 
a loose motion that is just short of stumbling and yet is wonderfully 
graceful. It is a barely controlled skimming of the ground.

They ran for three hours. Finally, avoiding hummocks and seeking low 
ground, they intercepted the rain squall. For ten minutes they ran 
beneath the squall, raising their arms and, for the first time, shouting 
and capering. Then the wind died and the rain squall held steady. 
They were studying the ground. Suddenly one of them shouted, ran a 
few feet, bent forward and put his mouth to the ground. He had found 
a depression with rain water in it. He bent down, a black cranelike figure, 
and put his mouth to the ground.   With a lordly and generous 
gesture, 
the discoverer stood up and beckoned to the closest of his fellows. The 
other trotted over and swooped at the tiny puddle. In an instant 
he had sucked it dry.   The aborigine lives on the cruelest land 
I have ever seen. Which does not mean that it is ugly. Part of it 
is, of course. There are thousands of square miles of salt pan which 
are hideous. They are huge areas which have been swept by winds for so 
many centuries that there is no soil left, but only deep bare ridges 
fifty or sixty yards apart with ravines between them thirty or forty 
feet deep and the only thing that moves is a scuttling layer of sand. 
Such stretches have an inhuman moonlike quality. But much of the land 
which the aborigine wanders <looks> as if it should be hospitable. 
It is softened by the saltbush and the bluebush, has a peaceful quality, 
the hills roll softly.   The malignancy of such a landscape 
has been beautifully described by the Australian Charles Bean. He 
tells of three men who started out on a trip across a single paddock, 
a ten-by-ten-mile square owned by a sheep grazer. They went well-equipped 
with everything except knowledge of the "outback" country. "

The countryside looked like a beautiful open park with gentle 
slopes and soft gray tree-clumps. Nothing appalling or horrible rushed 
upon these men. Only there happened- nothing. There might have 
been a pool of cool water behind any of these tree-clumps: only- 
there was not. It might have rained, any time; only- it did not. 
There might have been a fence or a house just over the next rise; 
only- there was not. They lay, with the birds hopping from branch 
to branch above them and the bright sky peeping down at them. No one 
came".   The white men died. And countless others like them have 
died. Even today range riders will come upon mummified bodies of 
men who attempted nothing more difficult than a twenty-mile hike and slowly 
lost direction, were tortured by the heat, driven mad by the constant 
and unfulfilled promise of the landscape, and who finally died.

The aborigine is not deceived; he knows that the land is hard 
and pitiless. He knows that the economy of life in the "outback" 
is awful. There is no room for error or waste. Any organism that falters 
or misperceives the signals or weakens is done. I do not know 
if such a way of life can come to be a self-conscious challenge, but 
I suspect that it can. Perhaps this is what gives the aborigine his 
odd air of dignity. 

#THE FAMILY AT THE BOULDER#

SEEING an aborigine 
today is a difficult thing. Many of them have drifted into the 
cities and towns and seaports. Others are confined to vast reservations, 
and not only does the Australian government justifiably not wish 
them to be viewed as exhibits in a zoo, but on their reservations they 
are extremely fugitive, shunning camps, coming together only for <corroborees> 
at which their strange culture comes to its highest pitch- 
which is very low indeed.   I persuaded an Australian friend 
who had lived "outback" for years to take me to see some aborigines 
living in the bush. It was a difficult and ambiguous kind of negotiation, 
even though the rancher was said to be expert in his knowledge 
of the aborigines and their language. Finally, however, the arrangements 
were made and we drove out into the bush in a Land Rover. We 
followed the asphalt road for a few miles and then swung off onto a 
smaller road which was nothing more than two tire marks on the earth. 
The rancher went a mile down this road and then, when he reached a big 
red boulder, swung off the road. At once he started to glance toward 
the instrument panel. It took me a moment to realize what was odd 
about that panel: there was a gimbaled compass welded to it, which rocked 
gently back and forth as the Land Rover bounced about. The rancher 
was navigating his way across the flatland.   "Do you always 
navigate like this"? I asked.   "Damned right", he 
said. "Once I get out on the flat I do. Some chaps that know an 
area well can make their way by landmarks **h a tree here, a wash here, 
a boulder there. But if you don't know the place like the palm of 
your hand, you'd better use a compass and the speedometer. Two miles 
northeast, then five miles southwest **h that sort of thing. Very 
simple".   He was right. The landscape kept repeating itself. 
I would try to memorize landmarks and saw in a half-hour that it was 
hopeless. Finally we approached the bivouac of the aborigines. They 
were camped beside a large column-shaped boulder: a man, his lubra, 
and two children. The sun was not yet high and all of them were in 
the small area 
of shade cast by the boulder.   There was also a dog, 
a dingo dog. Its ribs showed, it was a yellow nondescript color, 
it suffered from a variety of sores, hair had scabbed off its body in 
patches. It lay with its head on its paws and only its eyes moving, 
watching us carefully. It struck me as a very bright and very malnourished 
dog. No one patted the dog. It was not a pet. It was a worker.

"The buggers love shade", the rancher said. "I suppose 
because it saves them some loss of body water. They'll move around 
that rock all day, following the shade. During the hottest part of 
the day, of course, the sun comes straight down and there isn't any 
shade".   We drove close to the boulder, stopped the Land Rover, 
and walked over toward the family.   The man was leaning against 
the rock. He gazed away from us as we approached. He was over 
six feet tall and very thin. His legs were narrow and very long. Every 
bone and muscle in his body showed, but he did not give the appearance 
of starving. He had long black hair and a wispy beard. The ridges 
over his eyes were huge and his eyelids were half shut. There was something 
about his face that disturbed me and it took several seconds 
to realize what. It was not merely that flies were crawling over his 
face but his narrowed eyelids did not blink when the flies crawled into 
his eye sockets. A fly would crawl down the bulging forehead, into 
the socket of the eye, walk along the man's lashes and across the wet 
surface of the eyeball, and the eye did not blink. The Australian 
and I both were wearing insect repellent and were not badly bothered 
by insects, but my eyes watered as we stood watching the aborigine.

I turned to look at the lubra. She remained squatting on her heels 
all the time we were there; like the man, she was entirely naked. 
Her long thin arms moved in a slow rhythmical gesture over the family 
possessions which were placed in front of her. There were two rubbing 
sticks for making fire, two stones shaped roughly like knives, a woven-root 
container which held a few pounds of dried worms and the dead 
body of some rodent. There was also a long wooden spear and a woomera, 
a spear-throwing device which gives the spear an enormous velocity 
and high accuracy. There was also a boomerang, elaborately carved. Everything 
was burnished with sweat and grease so that all of the objects 
seemed to have been carved from the same material and to be ageless.

The two children, both boys, wandered around the Australian 
and me for a few moments and then returned to their work. They squatted 
on their heels with their heads bent far forward, their eyes only 
a few inches from the ground. They had located the runway of a colony 
of ants and as the ants came out of the ground, the boys picked them 
up, one at a time, and pinched them dead. The tiny bodies, dropped onto 
a dry leaf, made a pile as big as a small apple.   The odor 
here was more powerful than that which surrounded the town aborigines. 
The smell at first was more surprising than unpleasant. It was also 
subtly familiar, for it was the odor of the human body, but multiplied 
innumerable times because of the fact that the aborigines never bathed. 
One's impulse is to say that the smell was a stink and unpleasant. 
But that is a cliche and a dishonest one. The smell is sexual, but 
so powerfully so that a civilized nose must deny it.   Their 
skin was covered with a thin coating of sweat and dirt which had almost 
the consistency of a second skin. They roll at night in ashes to keep 
warm and their second skin has a light dusty cast to it. In spots 
such as the elbows and knees the second skin is worn off and I realized 
the aborigines were much darker than they appeared; as if the coating 
of sweat, dirt, and ashes were a cosmetic. The boys had beautiful 
dark eyes and unlike their father they brushed constantly at the flies 
and blinked their eyes.   "That smell is something, eh, mate"? 
the Australian asked. "They swear that every person smells 
different and every family smells different from every other. At the 
<corroborees,> when they get to dancing and sweating, you'll see 
them rubbing up against a man who's supposed to have a specially good 
smell. Idje, here", and he nodded at the man, "is said to have 
great odor. The stink is all the same to me, but I really think they 
can make one another out blindfolded".   "Here, Idje, you 
fella like tabac"? he said sharply. Idje still stared over our shoulders 
at the horizon. The Australian stopped trying to talk a pidgin 
I could understand, and spoke strange words from deep in his chest.

It was a fortunate time in which to build, for the seventeenth 
century was a great period in Persian art. The architects, the tile 
and carpet makers, the potters, painters, calligraphers, and metalsmiths 
worked through Abbas's reign and those of his successors to enrich 
the city. Travelers entering from the desert were confounded by 
what must have seemed an illusion: a great garden filled with nightingales 
and roses, cut by canals and terraced promenades, studded with 
water tanks of turquoise tile in which were reflected the glistening 
blue curves of a hundred domes. At the heart of all of this was the square, 
which one such traveler declared to be "as spacious, as pleasant 
and aromatick a Market as any in the Universe". In time Isfahan 
came to be known as "half the world", Isfahan <nisf-i-jahan>.

In the early eighteenth century this fantastic city, then the 
size of London, started to decline. The Afghans invaded; the Safavids 
fell from power; the capital went elsewhere; the desert encroached. 
Isfahan became more of a legend than a place, and now it is 
for many people simply a name to which they attach their notions of 
old Persia and sometimes of the East. They think of it as a kind of 
spooky museum in which they may half see and half imagine the old splendor.

Those who actually get there find that it isn't spooky 
at all but as brilliant as a tile in sunlight. But even for them it 
remains a museum, or perhaps it would be more accurate to say a tomb, 
a tomb in which Persia lies well preserved but indeed dead. Everyone 
is ready to grant the Persians their history, but almost no one is 
willing to acknowledge their present. It seems that for Persia, and 
especially for this city, there are only two times: the glorious past 
and the corrupt, depressing, sterile present. The one apparent connection 
between the two is a score of buildings which somehow or other 
have survived and which naturally enough are called "historical monuments".

However, just as all the buildings have not fallen and 
flowed back to their original mud, so the values which wanted them 
and saw that they were built have not all disappeared. The values and 
talents which made the tile and the dome, the rug, the poem and the miniature, 
continue in certain social institutions which rise above the 
ordinary life of this city, as the great buildings rise above blank walls 
and dirty lanes. Often, too, the social institutions are housed 
in these pavilions and palaces and bridges, for these great structures 
are not simply "historical monuments"; they are the places where 
Persians live.   The promenade, for example, continues to take 
place on the Chahar Bagh, a mile-long garden of plane and poplar trees 
that now serves as the city's principal street. ?t takes place 
as well along the terraces and through the arcades of the Khaju bridge, 
and also in the gardens of the square. On Fridays, the day when 
many Persians relax with poetry, talk, and a samovar, people do not, 
it is true, stream into Chehel Sotun- a pavilion and garden built 
by Shah Abbas /2, in the seventeenth century- but they do retire 
into hundreds of pavilions throughout the city and up the river valley, 
which are smaller, more humble copies of the former. And of course 
religious life continues to center in the more famous mosques, and commercial 
life- very much a social institution- in the bazaar. Those 
three other great activities of the Persians, the bath, the teahouse, 
and the <zur khaneh> (the latter a kind of club in which a leader 
and a group of men in an octagonal pit move through a rite of calisthenics, 
dance, chanted poetry, and music), do not take place in buildings 
to which entrance tickets are sold, but some of them occupy splendid 
examples of Persian domestic architecture: long, domed, chalk-white 
rooms with daises of turquoise tile, their end walls cut through 
to the orchards and the sky by open arches.   But more important, 
and the thing which the casual traveler and the blind sojourner often 
do not see, is that these places and activities are often the settings 
in which Persians exercise their extraordinary aesthetic sensibilities. 
Water, air, fruit, poetry, music, the human form- these things 
are important to Persians, and they experience them with an intense 
and discriminating awareness.   I should like, by the way, to make 
it clear that I am not using the word "Persians" carelessly. 
I don't mean a few aesthetes who play about with sensations, like 
a young prince in a miniature dabbling his hand in a pool. These things 
are important to almost all Persians and perhaps most important to 
the most ordinary. The men crying love poems in an orchard on any summer's 
night are as often as not the <lutihaw,> mustachioed toughs 
who spend most of their lives in and out of the local prisons, brothels, 
and teahouses. A few months ago it was a fairly typical landlord 
who in the dead of night lugged me up a mountainside to drink from a spring 
famous in the neighborhood for its clarity and flavor. Not long 
ago an acquaintance, a slick-headed water rat of a lad up from the maw 
of the city, stood on the balcony puffing his first cigarette in weeks. 
The air, he said, was just right; a cigarette would taste particularly 
good. I really didn't know what he meant. It was a nice day, 
granted. But <he> knew; he sniffed the air and licked it on his 
lip and knew as a vintner knows a vintage.   The natural world 
then, plus poetry and some kinds of art, receives from the most ordinary 
of Persians a great deal of attention. The line of an eyebrow, 
the color of the skin, a ghazal from Hafiz, the purity of spring water, 
the long afternoon among the boughs which crowd the upper story of 
a pavilion- these things are noticed, judged, and valued.   Nowhere 
in Isfahan is this rich aesthetic life of the Persians shown so 
well as during the promenade at the Khaju bridge. There has probably 
always been a bridge of some sort at the southeastern corner of the 
city. For one thing, there is a natural belt of rock across the river 
bed; for another, it was here that one of the old caravan routes came 
in. It was to provide a safe and spacious crossing for these caravans, 
and also to make a pleasance for the city, that Shah Abbas /2, 
in about 1657 built, of sun-baked brick, tile, and stone, the present 
bridge. It is a splendid structure. From upstream it looks like a 
long arcaded box laid across the river; from downstream, where the 
water level is much lower, it is a high, elaborately facaded pavilion.

The top story contains more than thirty alcoves separated from 
each other by spandrels of blue and yellow tile. At either end and 
in the center there are bays which contain nine greater alcoves as frescoed 
and capacious as church apses. Here, in the old days- when they 
had come to see the moon or displays of fireworks- sat the king and 
his court while priests, soldiers, and other members of the party lounged 
in the smaller alcoves between.   Below, twenty vaults tunnel 
through the understructure of the bridge. These are traversed by 
another line of vaults, and thus rooms, arched on all four sides, are 
formed. Down through the axis of the bridge there is a long diminishing 
vista like a visual echo of piers and arches, while the vaults fronting 
upstream and down frame the sunset and sunrise, the mountains and 
river pools. Here, on the hottest day, it is cool beneath the stone 
and fresh from the water flowing in the sluices at the bottom of the 
vaults.   On the downstream, or "pavilion", side these vaults 
give out onto terraces twice as wide as the bridge itself. From the 
terraces- eighteen in all- broad flights of steps descend into the 
water or onto still more terraces barely above the level of the river. 
Out of water, brick, and tile they have made far more than just a 
bridge.   On spring and summer evenings people leave their shops 
and houses and walk up through the lanes of the city to the bridge. It 
is a great spectacle. The bridge itself rises up from the river, light-flared 
and enormous, like the outdoor set for an epic opera. Crowds 
press along the terraces, down the steps, in and out of the arcades, 
massing against it as though it were a fortress under siege. All kinds 
come to walk in the promenade: merchants from the bazaar bickering 
over a deal; a Bakhtiari khan in a cap and hacking jacket; dervishes 
who stand with the stillness of the blind, their eyes filmed with 
rheum and visions; the old Kajar princes arriving in their ancient 
limousines; students, civil servants, beggars, musicians, hawkers, 
and clowns. Families go out to the edge of the terraces to sit on 
carpets around a samovar. Below, people line the steps, as though on 
bleachers, to watch the sky and river. Above, in the tiled prosceniums 
of the alcoves, boys sing the ghazals of Hafiz and Saadi, while at 
the very bottom, in the vaults, the toughs and blades of the city hoot 
and bang their drums, drink arak, play dice, and dance.   Here 
in an evening Persians enjoy many of the things which are important 
to them: poetry, water, the moon, a beautiful face. To a stranger 
their delight in these things may seem paradoxical, for Persians chase 
the golden calf as much as any people. Many of them, moreover, are 
beginning to complain about the scarcity of Western amusements and to 
ridicule the old life of the bazaar merchant, the mullah, and the peasant. 
Nonetheless, they take time out- much time- from the game of 
grab and these new Western experiments to go to the gardens and riverbanks. 
Above all, they will stop in the middle of anything, anywhere, 
to hear or quote some poetry.   Poetry in Persian life is far 
more than a common ground on which- in a society deeply fissured by 
antagonisms- all may stand. It contains, in fact, their whole outlook 
on life. And it is expressed, at least to their taste, in a perfect 
form. Poetry for a Persian is nothing less than truth and beauty. 
In most Western cultures today these twins have been sent away to the 
libraries and museums. In Persia, where practically speaking there 
are no museums or libraries or, for that matter, hardly any books, the 
twins run free.   It is perhaps difficult to conceive, but imagine 
that tonight on London bridge the Teddy boys of the East End 
will gather to sing Marlowe, Herrick, Shakespeare, and perhaps some 
lyrics of their own. That, at any rate, is what happens at the Khaju 
bridge. Boys and men go along the riverbank or to the alcoves in the 
top arcade. Here in these little rooms- or stages arched open to 
the sky and river- they choose a few lines out of the hundreds they 
may know and sing them according to one of the modes into which Persian 
music is divided. Each mode is believed to have a specific attribute- 
one inducing pleasure, another generosity, another love, and so 
on, to include all of the emotions. The singer simply matches the poem 
to a mode; for example, the mode of bravery to this anonymous folk 
poem: "<They brought me news that Spring is in the plains And 
Ahmad's blood the crimson tulip stains; Go, tell his aged mother 
that her son Fought with a thousand foes, and he was one>". 
Or the mode of love to this fragment by a recent poet: "<Know 
ye, fair folk who dwell on earth Or shall hereafter come to birth, That 
here, with dust upon his eyes, Iraj, the sweet-tongued singer, lies. 
In this true lover's tomb interred A world of love lies sepulchred> 
**h".   These songs (practically all Persian music, for 
that matter) are limited to a range of two octaves. Yet within this 
limitation there is an astonishing variety: design as intricate as 
that in the carpet or miniature, with the melodic line like the painted 
or woven line often flowing into an arabesque. 
<Die Frist ist um, und wiederum verstrichen sind sieben Jahr,> the 
Maestro quoted <The Flying Dutchman,> as he told of his career 
and wanderings, explaining that the number seven had significantly recurred 
in his life several times.   The music director of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra, William Steinberg, has molded his group 
into a prominent musical organization, which is his life. When he 
added to his Pittsburgh commitments the directorship of the London 
Philharmonic Orchestra in 1958, he conducted one hundred fifty concerts 
within nine months, "commuting" between the two cities. This 
schedule became too strenuous, even for the energetic and conscientious 
Mr& Steinberg. His London contract was rescinded, and now, he 
explains cheerfully, as a bright smile lightens his intense, mobile face, 
"I conduct only one hundred and twenty concerts"!   Our 
meeting took place in May, 1961, during one of the Maestro's stop-overs 
in New York, before he left for Europe. As we began to converse 
in the lounge of his Fifth Avenue hotel, his restlessness and 
sensitivity to light and sound became immediately apparent. Seeking 
an obscure, dark, relatively quiet corner in the airy room otherwise 
suffused with afternoon sunshine, he asked if the soft background music 
could be turned off. Unfortunately, it was Muzak, which automatically 
is piped into the public rooms, and which <nolens volens> had to 
be endured. As he talked about himself, time and again stuffing and 
dragging on his pipe, Steinberg began to relax and the initial hurried 
feeling grew faint and was dispelled.   Did he come from a musical 
family? Yes: though not professional musicians, they were a 
music-loving family. In his native Cologne, where his mother taught 
him to play the piano, he was able to read notes before he learned the 
alphabet. She even devised a system of colors, whereby the boy could 
easily distinguish the different note values. When he started school 
at the age of five-and-a-half, he could not understand why the alphabet 
begins with the letter ~A, instead of ~C, as in the scale. Because, 
like many other children, he intensely disliked practicing Czerny 
<Etudes,> he composed his own studies. When he was eight he began 
violin lessons. Soon he was playing in the Cologne Municipal Orchestra, 
and during World War /1,, when musicians were scarce, he 
joined the opera orchestra as well. Steinberg claims that these early 
years of orchestra participation were of invaluable help to his career. 
"By observing the conductor", he says with a twinkle in his 
eyes, "I learned how not to conduct".   The musician ran away 
from school when he was fifteen, but this escapade did not save him 
from the Gymnasium. Simultaneously, he pursued his musical studies 
at the conservatory, receiving sound training in counterpoint and harmony, 
as well in the violin and piano. His professional career began when 
he was twenty; he became Otto Klemperer's personal assistant 
at the Cologne Opera, and a year later was promoted to the position 
of regular conductor.   Wasn't this an unusually young age to 
fill such a responsible post? Yes, the Maestro assented.   Had 
he always wished to be a conductor? No, originally he had hoped 
to become a concert pianist and had even performed as such. However, 
when he assumed the duties of a conductor, he relinquished his career 
as a pianist.   Five years were spent with the Cologne Opera, 
after which he was called to Prague by Alexander von Zemlinsky, teacher 
of Arnold Scho^nberg and Erich Korngold. In 1927 he succeeded 
Zemlinsky as opera director of the German Theater at Prague. 
During his tenure he also fulfilled guest engagements at the Berlin 
State Opera. Two years later he became director of the Frankfurt Opera, 
where he remained until he lost this position in 1933 through the 
rise of the Hitler regime. During these years the youthful conductor 
had contributed greatly to the high level of musical life in Germany. 
He had presented the first German performances of Puccini's 
<Manon Lescaut> and de Falla's 
<La Vida Breve>. The Frankfurt 
years were particularly noteworthy for his performance of Berg's 
<Wozzek> soon after the Berlin premiere under Erich Kleiber, 
and the world premiere of Scho^nberg's <Von heute auf morgen>. 
At the outset of his career, Steinberg had dedicated himself to the 
advancement of contemporary music by vowing to do a Scho^nberg work 
every year. In Frankfurt, too, he directed the Museum and Opera 
House concerts which, in addition to the standard repertoire, featured 
novelties like Erdmann's Piano Concerto and Mahler's Sixth 
Symphony.   Because of the political upheaval in Germany in the 
1930's, 
Steinberg was forced to restrict his activities to the Jewish 
community. Through the Frankfurt Jewish <Kulturbund> he began 
to give sonata recitals in synagogues, with Cellist Emanuel Feuermann. 
As more and more Jewish musicians lost their jobs with professional 
organizations Steinberg united them into the Frankfurt <Kulturbund> 
Orchestra, which also gave guest performances in other German 
cities. In 1936 he accepted the leadership of the Berlin <Kulturbund>. 
In the fall of that year the best musicians of the Berlin 
and Frankfurt <Kulturbund> orchestras joined under the combined efforts 
of Bronislaw Hubermann and Steinberg to become the Palestine 
Orchestra- now known as the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra- with 
Steinberg as founder-conductor.   In 1938, at the insistence 
of Arturo Toscanini, Steinberg left Germany for the United States, 
by way of Switzerland. After he had spent the first three years 
in New York as associate conductor, at Toscanini's invitation, of 
the ~NBC Orchestra, he made numerous guest appearances throughout 
the United States and Latin America. In 1945 he became conductor 
of the Buffalo Philharmonic. Seven years later he was asked to become 
director of the Pittsburgh Symphony. Since 1944 he has also conducted 
regularly at the San Francisco Opera, where he made his debut 
with a memorable performance of Verdi's <Falstaff>. In recent 
years he has traveled widely in Europe, conducting in Italy, France, 
Austria, and Switzerland. He returned to Germany for the first 
time in 1953, where he has since conducted in Cologne, Frankfurt, 
and Berlin.   Where in Europe was he going now?   First 
of all, to Italy for a short vacation- Forte dei Marmi, a place 
he loves. Since it is not far from Viareggio, he will visit Puccini's 
house, as he never fails to do, to pay his respects to the memory 
of the composer of <La Boheme,> which he considers one of Puccini's 
masterpieces. Steinberg spoke with warmth and enthusiasm about 
Italy: "Rome is my second home. I consider it the center of the 
world and make it a point to be there once a year". He will conduct 
two concerts at the Accademia di Santa Cecilia, as well as concerts 
in Munich and Cologne. "Then I return to the United States 
for engagements at the Hollywood Bowl and in Philadelphia", he 
added.   The forthcoming season in Pittsburgh also promises to 
be of unusual interest. There will be premieres of new works, made possible 
through Ford Foundation commissions: Carlisle Floyd's <Mystery,> 
with Phyllis Curtin as soprano soloist. Other world premieres 
will be Gardner Read's Third Symphony and Burle Marx's 
<Samba Concertante>.   "And next year we will do- also 
a Ford commission- a piano concerto by Elliott Carter, with Jacob 
Lateiner as soloist. Of course, I shall conduct Mahler and Bruckner 
works in the coming season, as usual. We'll play Bruckner's 
Fifth Symphony in the original version, and Mahler's Seventh- 
the least accessible, known, and played of Mahler's works. My Pittsburghers 
have become real addicts to Mahler and Bruckner".

He added that he also stresses the works of these favorite masters 
on tour, especially Mahler's First and Fourth symphonies, and 
<Das Lied von der Erde,> and Bruckner's Sixth- which is rarely 
played- and Seventh. Bruckner's Eighth he refers to as "my 
travel symphony". He recalled that in California after a critic 
had attacked him for "still trying to sell Bruckner to the Americans", 
the public's response at the next concert was a standing ovation.

"Now that Bruno Walter is virtually in retirement and 
my dear friend Dimitri Mitropoulos is no longer with us, I am probably 
the only one- with the possible exception of Leonard Bernstein- 
who has this special affinity for and champions the works of Bruckner 
and Mahler".   Since he introduces so much modern music, 
I could not resist asking how he felt about it.   "There was 
always and at all times a contemporary music and it expresses the era 
in which it was created. But I usually stick to the old phrase: 
<'Ich habe ein Amt, aber keine Meinung> (I hold an office, but 
I do not feel entitled to have an opinion). I consider it to be my 
job to expose the public to what is being written today".   With 
all his musical activities, did he have the time and inclination to 
do anything else? He had just paid a brief visit to the Frick Collection 
to admire his favorite paintings by Rembrandt and Franz Hals. 
He was not enthusiastic over the newly acquired Claude Lorrain, 
but reminisced with pleasure over a Poussin exhibit he had been able 
to see in Paris a year ago.   And how did he feel about modern 
art? Again Steinberg was cautious and replied with a smile that he 
was not exposed to it enough to hazard comments. "As my wife puts 
it", he said, again with a twinkle in his eyes, "all you know is 
your music. But after all, you never learned anything else"!

What did he do for relaxation? Like his late colleague, Mitropoulos, 
he reads mystery stories, in particular Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. 
He cited Heine and Stendhal as favorites in literature.

But his prime interest, apart from music, he insisted seriously, was 
his family- his wife, daughter and son. At the moment he was excited 
about his son's having received the Prix de Rome in archaeology 
and was looking forward to being present this summer at the excavation 
of an Etruscan tomb. "Both children are musical and my wife is 
a music lover of unfailing instinct and judgment". 
"IS the attitude of German youth comparable to that of "the 
angry 
young men' of England"? was the topic for a round-table discussion 
at the Bayerische Rundfunk in Munich.   I was chairman, 
the only not youthful participant. Since attack serves to stimulate 
interest in broadcasts, I added to my opening statement a sentence in 
which I claimed that German youth seemed to lack the enthusiasm which 
is a necessary ingredient of anger, and might be classified as uninterested 
and bored rather than angry. I was far from convinced of the 
truth of my statement, but could not think of anything that might evoke 
responses more quickly.   "It is easy for you to talk"; 
countered a twenty year old law student, "you travel around the world. 
We would like to do that too".   "But you want a job guaranteed 
when you return", I continued my attack. "You must have 
some security", said a young clerk.   When I mentioned that 
for my first long voyage I did not even have the money for the return 
fare, but had trusted to luck that I would earn a sufficient amount, 
the young people looked at me doubtingly. One girl expressed what was 
obviously in their minds.   "Would you advise us to act the 
same way? You might have failed. I think it is rather foolhardy to 
trust to luck".   Others mentioned that I might have had to 
ask 
friends or even strangers for help and that to be stranded in a foreign 
country without sufficient funds did not contribute to international 
understanding.   The debate needed no additional controversy 
and soon I could ask each individually what he expected from life, what 
his hopes were and what his fears.   Though the four boys and 
two girls, the youngest nineteen years of age, the oldest twenty-four, 
came from varying backgrounds and had different professional and personal 
interests, there was surprising agreement among them. What they 
wished for most was security; what they feared most was war or political 
instability in their own country.   The ideal home, they 
agreed, would be a small private house or a city apartment of four to 
five rooms, just enough for a family consisting of husband, wife, and 
two children. No one wanted a larger family or no children, and none 
hoped for a castle or said that living in less settled circumstances would 
be satisfactory.   All expressed interest in world affairs 
but no one offered to make any sacrifices to satisfy this interest. 
##

ONCE again, as in the days of the Founding Fathers, America 
faces a stern test. That test, as President Kennedy forthrightly 
depicted it in his State of the Union message, will determine "whether 
a nation organized and governed such as ours can endure".

It is well then that in this hour both of "national peril" 
and of "national opportunity" we can take counsel with the men who 
made the nation. Incapable of self-delusion, the Founding Fathers 
found the crisis of their time to be equally grave, and yet they had 
confidence that America would surmount it and that a republic of free 
peoples would prosper and serve as an example to a world aching for liberty.

Seven Founders- George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, 
John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton, James 
Madison and John Jay- determined the destinies of the new nation. 
In certain respects, their task was incomparably greater than ours today, 
for there was nobody before them to show them the way. As Madison 
commented to Jefferson in 1789, "We are in a wilderness without 
a single footstep to guide us. Our successors will have an easier task".

They thought of themselves, to use Jefferson's words, 
as "the Argonauts" who had lived in "the Heroic Age". Accordingly, 
they took special pains to preserve their papers as essential 
sources for posterity. Their writings assume more than dramatic or 
patriotic interest because of their conviction that the struggle in 
which they were involved was neither selfish nor parochial but, rather, 
as Washington in his last wartime circular reminded his fellow countrymen, 
that "with our fate will the destiny of unborn millions be involved".

Strong men with strong opinions, frank to the point 
of being refreshingly indiscreet, the Founding Seven were essentially 
congenial minds, and their agreements with each other were more consequential 
than their differences. Even though in most cases the completion 
of the definitive editions of their writings is still years off, 
enough documentation has already been assembled to warrant drawing 
a new composite profile of the leadership which performed the heroic dual 
feats of winning American independence and founding a new nation.

Before merging them into a common profile it is well to remember 
that their separate careers were extraordinary. Certainly no other 
seven American statesmen from any later period achieved so much in 
so concentrated a span of years.   Eldest of the seven, Benjamin 
Franklin, a New Englander transplanted to Philadelphia, wrote the 
most dazzling success story in our history. The young printer's apprentice 
achieved greatness in a half-dozen different fields, as editor 
and publisher, scientist, inventor, philanthropist and statesman. 
Author of the Albany Plan of Union, which, had it been adopted, might 
have avoided the Revolution, he fought the colonists' front-line 
battles in London, negotiated the treaty of alliance with France and 
the peace that ended the war, headed the state government of Pennsylvania, 
and exercised an important moderating influence at the Federal 
Convention. ##

ON a military mission for his native Virginia 
the youthful George Washington touched off the French and Indian 
War, then guarded his colony's frontier as head of its militia. 
Commanding the Continental Army for six long years of the Revolution, 
he was the indispensable factor in the ultimate victory. Retiring 
to his beloved Mount Vernon, he returned to preside over the Federal 
Convention, and was the only man in history to be unanimously elected 
President. During his two terms the Constitution was tested and 
found workable, strong national policies were inaugurated, and the 
traditions and powers of the Presidential office firmly fixed. 
John Adams fashioned much of pre-Revolutionary radical ideology, wrote 
the constitution of his home state of Massachusetts, negotiated, 
with Franklin and Jay, the peace with Britain and served as our first 
Vice President and our second President. ##

HIS political 
opponent and lifetime friend, Thomas Jefferson, achieved immortality 
through his authorship of the Declaration of Independence, but 
equally notable were the legal and constitutional reforms he instituted 
in his native Virginia, his role as father of our territorial system, 
and his acquisition of the Louisiana Territory during his first 
term as President.   During the greater part of Jefferson's 
career he enjoyed the close collaboration of a fellow Virginian, James 
Madison, eight years his junior. The active sponsor of Jefferson's 
measure for religious liberty in Virginia, Madison played the most 
influential single role in the drafting of the Constitution and in 
securing its ratification in Virginia, founded the first political 
party in American history, and, as Jefferson's Secretary of State 
and his successor in the Presidency, guided the nation through the 
troubled years of our second war with Britain.   If Franklin was 
an authentic genius, then Alexander Hamilton, with his exceptional 
precocity, consuming energy, and high ambition, was a political prodigy. 
His revolutionary pamphlets, published when he was only 19, quickly 
brought him to the attention of the patriot leaders. Principal author 
of "The Federalist", he swung New York over from opposition 
to the Constitution to ratification almost single-handedly. His 
collaboration with Washington, begun when he was the general's aide 
during the Revolution, was resumed when he entered the first Cabinet 
as Secretary of the Treasury. His bold fiscal program and his broad 
interpretation of the Constitution stand as durable contributions. 
##

LESS dazzling than Hamilton, less eloquent than Jefferson, 
John Jay commands an equally high rank among the Founding Fathers. 
He served as president of the Continental Congress. He played 
the leading role in negotiating the treaty with Great Britain that 
ended the Revolution, and directed America's foreign affairs throughout 
the Confederation period. As first Chief Justice, his strong 
nationalist opinions anticipated John Marshall. He ended his public 
career as a two-term governor of New York.   These Seven Founders 
constituted an intellectual and social elite, the most respectable 
and disinterested leadership any revolution ever confessed. Their 
social status was achieved in some cases by birth, as with Washington, 
Jefferson and Jay; in others by business and professional acumen, 
as with Franklin and Adams, or, in Hamilton's case, by an influential 
marriage. Unlike so many of the power-starved intellectuals 
in underdeveloped nations of our own day, they commanded both prestige 
and influence before the Revolution started.   As different 
physically as the tall, angular Jefferson was from the chubby, rotund 
Adams, the seven were striking individualists. Ardent, opinionated, 
even obstinate, they were amazingly articulate, wrote their own copy, 
and were masters of phrasemaking. ##

CAPABLE of enduring friendships, 
they were also stout controversialists, who could write with 
a drop of vitriol on their pens. John Adams dismissed John Dickinson, 
who voted against the Declaration of Independence, as "a certain 
great fortune and piddling genius". Washington castigated his 
critic, General Conway, as being capable of "all the meanness of intrigue 
to gratify the absurd resentment of disappointed vanity". And 
Hamilton, who felt it "a religious duty" to oppose Aaron Burr's 
political ambitions, would have been a better actuarial risk had 
he shown more literary restraint.   The Seven Founders were 
completely dedicated to the public service. Madison once remarked: 
"My life has been so much a public one", a comment which fits the 
careers of the other six. Franklin retired from editing and publishing 
at the age of 42, and for the next forty-two years devoted himself 
to public, scientific, and philanthropic interests. Washington never 
had a chance to work for an extended stretch at the occupation he loved 
best, plantation management. He served as Commander in Chief during 
the Revolution without compensation. ##

JOHN ADAMS took 
to heart the advice given him by his legal mentor, Jeremiah Gridley, 
to "pursue the study of the law, rather than the gain of it". In 
taking account of seventeen years of law practice, Adams concluded 
that "no lawyer in America ever did so much business as I did" 
and "for so little profit". When the Revolution broke out, he, along 
with Jefferson and Jay, abandoned his career at the bar, with considerable 
financial sacrifice.   Hamilton, poorest of the seven, 
gave up a brilliant law practice to enter Washington's Cabinet. 
While he was handling the multi-million-dollar funding operations of 
the Government he had to resort to borrowing small sums from friends. 
"If you can conveniently let me have twenty dollars", he wrote 
one friend in 1791 when he was Secretary of the Treasury.   To 
support his large family Hamilton went back to the law after each spell 
of public service. Talleyrand passed his New York law office one 
night on the way to a party. Hamilton was bent over his desk, drafting 
a legal paper by the light of a candle. The Frenchman was astonished. 
"I have just come from viewing a man who had made the fortune 
of his country, but now is working all night in order to support his 
family", he reflected. ##

ALL seven combined ardent devotion 
to the cause of revolution with a profound respect for legality. John 
Adams asserted in the Continental Congress' Declaration of 
Rights that the demands of the colonies were in accordance with their 
charters, the British Constitution and the common law, and Jefferson 
appealed in the Declaration of Independence "to the tribunal of 
the world" for support of a revolution justified by "the laws of 
nature and of nature's God".   They fought hard, but they were 
forgiving to former foes, and sought to prevent vindictive legislatures 
from confiscating Tory property in violation of the Treaty of 
1783.   This sense of moderation and fairness is superbly exemplified 
in an exchange of letters between John Jay and a Tory refugee, 
Peter Van Schaack. Jay had participated in the decision that exiled 
his old friend Van Schaack. Yet when, at war's end, the ex-Tory 
made the first move to resume correspondence, Jay wrote him from 
Paris, where he was negotiating the peace settlement: 
"As 
an independent American I considered all who were not for us, and you 
amongst the rest, as against us, yet be assured that John Jay never 
ceased to be the friend of Peter Van Schaack".   The latter 
in turn assured him that "were I arraigned at the bar, and you my 
judge, I should expect to stand or fall only by the merits of my cause".

All seven recognized that independence was but the first 
step toward building a nation. "We have now a national character 
to establish", Washington wrote in 1783. "Think continentally", 
Hamilton counseled the young nation. This new force, love of country, 
super-imposed upon- if not displacing- affectionate ties to one's 
own state, was epitomized by Washington. His first inaugural 
address speaks of "my country whose voice I can never hear but with 
veneration and love".   All sought the fruition of that nationalism 
in a Federal Government with substantial powers. Save Jefferson, 
all participated in the framing or ratification of the Federal 
Constitution. They supported it, not as a perfect instrument, but as 
the best obtainable. Historians have traditionally regarded the great 
debates of the Seventeen Nineties as polarizing the issues of centralized 
vs& limited government, with Hamilton and the nationalists 
supporting the former and Jefferson and Madison upholding the latter 
position. ##

THE state's rights position was formulated by 
Jefferson and Madison in the Kentucky and Virginia Resolves, but 
in their later careers as heads of state the two proved themselves better 
Hamiltonians than Jeffersonians. In purchasing Louisiana, Jefferson 
had to adopt Hamilton's broad construction of the Constitution, 
and so did Madison in advocating the rechartering of Hamilton's 
bank, which he had so strenuously opposed at its inception, and in 
adopting a Hamiltonian protective tariff. Indeed, the old Jeffersonians 
were far more atune to the Hamilton-oriented Whigs than they 
were to the Jacksonian Democrats. ##

WHEN, in 1832, the South 
Carolina nullifiers adopted the principle of state interposition 
which Madison had advanced in his old Virginia Resolve, they elicited 
no encouragement from that senior statesman. In his political testament, 
"Advice to My Country", penned just before his death, Madison 
expressed the wish "that the Union of the States be cherished 
and perpetuated. Let the open enemy to it be regarded as a Pandora 
with her box opened; and the disguised one, as the serpent creeping 
with his deadly wiles into Paradise". 

#TOBACCO ROAD IS DEAD. LONG LIVE TOBACCO ROAD.#

Nostalgic Yankee 
readers of Erskine Caldwell are today informed by proud Georgians 
that Tobacco Road is buried beneath a four-lane super highway, over 
which travel each day suburbanite businessmen more concerned with the 
Dow-Jones average than with the cotton crop. Thus we are compelled 
to face the urbanization of the South- an urbanization which, despite 
its dramatic and overwhelming effects upon the Southern culture, 
has been utterly ignored by the bulk of Southern writers. Indeed, it 
seems that only in today's Southern fiction does Tobacco Road, 
with all the traditional trimmings of sowbelly and cornbread and mint 
juleps, continue to live- but only as a weary, overexploited phantom.

Those writers known collectively as the "Southern school" 
have received accolades from even those critics least prone to eulogize; 
according to many critics, in fact, the South has led the North 
in literature since the Civil War, both quantitatively and qualitatively. 
Such writers as William Faulkner and Robert Penn Warren 
have led the field of somewhat less important writers in a sort of post-bellum 
renaissance. It is interesting, however, that despite this 
strong upsurge in Southern writing, almost none of the writers has 
forsaken the firmly entrenched concept of the white-suited big-daddy colonel 
sipping a mint julep as he silently recounts the revenue from the 
season's cotton and tobacco crops; of the stereotyped Negro servants 
chanting hymns as they plow the fields; of these and a host of 
other antiquated legends that deny the South its progressive leaps 
of the past century. This is not to say that the South is no longer 
agrarian; such a statement would be the rankest form of oversimplification. 
But the South is, and has been for the past century, engaged 
in a wide-sweeping urbanization which, oddly enough, is not reflected 
in its literature.   In 1900 the South was only 15% urban; 
in 1950 it had become 47.1% urban. In a mere half-century the South 
has more than tripled its urban status. There is a New South emerging, 
a South losing the folksy traditions of an agrarian society with 
the rapidity of an avalanche- especially within recent decades. As 
the New South snowballs toward further urbanization, it becomes more 
and more homogeneous with the North- a tendency which Willard 
Thorp terms "Yankeefication", as evidenced in such cities as Charlotte, 
Birmingham, and Houston. It is said that, even at the present 
stage of Southern urbanization, such a city as Atlanta is not distinctly 
unlike Columbus or Trenton. Undoubtedly even the old Southern 
stalwart Richmond has felt the new wind: William Styron mentions 
in his latest novel an avenue named for Bankhead McGruder, a Civil 
War general, now renamed, in typical California fashion, "Buena 
Vista Terrace". The effects of television and other mass media 
are erasing regional dialects and localisms with a startling force. 
As for progress, the "backward South" can boast of Baton Rouge, 
which increased its population between 1940 and 1950 by two hundred 
and sixty-two percent, to 126,000, the second largest growth of the period 
for all cities over 25,000.   The field, then, is ripe for 
new Southerners to step to the fore and write of this twentieth-century 
phenomenon, the Southern Yankeefication: the new urban economy, 
the city-dweller, the pains of transition, the labor problems; the 
list is, obviously, endless. But these sources have not been tapped. 
Truman Capote is still reveling in Southern Gothicism, exaggerating 
the old Southern legends into something beautiful and grotesque, but 
as unreal as- or even <more> unreal than- yesterday. William 
Styron, while facing the changing economy with a certain uneasy reluctance, 
insists he is not to be classified as a Southern writer and 
yet includes traditional Southern concepts in everything he publishes. 
Even the great god Faulkner, the South's one probable contender 
for literary immortality, has little concerned himself with these matters; 
such are simply not within his bounded province.   Where 
are the writers to treat these changes? Has the agrarian tradition 
become such an addiction that the switch to urbanism is somehow dreaded 
or unwanted? Perhaps present writers hypnotically cling to the 
older order because they consider it useful and reliable through repeated 
testings over the decades. Lacking the pioneer spirit necessary to 
write of a <new> economy, these writers seem to be contenting themselves 
with an old one that is now as defunct as Confederate money.

An example of the changes which have crept over the Southern region 
may be seen in the Southern Negro's quest for a position in 
the white-dominated society, a problem that has been reflected in regional 
fiction especially since 1865. Today the Negro must discover his 
role in an <industrialized> South, which indicates that the racial 
aspect of the Southern dilemma hasn't changed radically, but rather 
has gradually come to be reflected in this new context, this new coat 
of paint. The Negro faces as much, if not more, difficulty in fitting 
himself into an urban economy as he did in an agrarian one. This 
represents a gradual change in an ever-present social problem. But there 
have been abrupt changes as well: the sit-ins, the picket lines, 
the bus strikes- all of these were unheard-of even ten years ago. 
Today's evidence, such as the fact that only three Southern states 
(South Carolina, Alabama and Mississippi) still openly defy integration, 
would have astounded many of yesterday's Southerners into speechlessness.

Other examples of <gradual> changes that have 
affected the Negro have been his moving up, row by row, in the busses; 
his requesting, and often getting, higher wages, better working conditions, 
better schools- changes that were slowly emerging even before 
the Supreme Court decision of 1954. Then came this decision, which 
sped the process of gaining equality (or perhaps hindered it; only 
historical evolution will determine which): an <abrupt> change.

Since 1954 the Negro's desire for social justice has led 
to an ironically anarchical rebellion. He has frequently refused to move 
from white lunch counters, refused to obey <local> laws which he 
considers unjust, while in other cases he has appealed to <federal> 
laws. This bold self-assertion, after decades of humble subservience, 
is indeed a twentieth-century phenomenon, an abrupt change in the Southern 
way of existence. A new order is thrusting itself into being. 
A new South is emerging after the post-bellum years of hesitation, 
uncertainty, and lack of action from the Negro in defining his new role 
in the amorphously defined socio-political organizations of the white 
man.   The modern Negro has not made a decisive debut into Southern 
fiction. It is clear that, while most writers enjoy picturing 
the Negro as a woolly-headed, humble old agrarian who mutters "yassuhs" 
and "sho' nufs" with blissful deference to his white employer 
(or, in Old South terms, "massuh"), this stereotype is doomed 
to become in reality as obsolete as Caldwell's Lester. While 
there may still be many Faulknerian Lucas Beauchamps scattered through 
the rural South, such men appear to be a vanishing breed. Writers 
openly admit that the Negro is easier to write than the white man; 
but they obviously mean by this, not a Negro personality, but a Negro 
<type>. Presenting an individualized Negro character, it would 
seem, is one of the most difficult assignments a Southern writer could 
tackle; and the success of such an endeavor is, as suggested above, 
glaringly rare.   Just as the Negro situation points up the 
gradual and abrupt changes affecting Southern life, it also points up 
the non-representation of urbanism in Southern literature. The book 
concerned with the Negro's role in an urban society is rare indeed; 
recently only Keith Wheeler's novel, <Peaceable Lane>, has 
openly faced the problem.   All but the most rabid of Confederate 
flag wavers admit that the Old Southern tradition is defunct in 
actuality and sigh that its passing was accompanied by the disappearance 
of many genteel and aristocratic traditions of the reputedly languid 
ante-bellum way of life. Many earlier writers, mourning the demise 
of the old order, tended to romanticize and exaggerate this "gracious 
Old South" imagery, creating such lasting impressions as Margaret 
Mitchell's 
"Tara" plantation. Modern writers, who are supposed 
to keep their fingers firmly upon the pulse of their subjects, insist 
upon drawing out this legend, prolonging its burial, when it well deserves 
a rest after the overexploitation of the past century. Perhaps 
these writers have been too deeply moved by this romanticizing; but 
they can hardly deny that, exaggerated or not, the old panorama is dead. 
As John T& Westbrook says in his article, "Twilight of Southern 
Regionalism" (<Southwest Review>, Winter 1957): "**h 
The miasmal mausoleum where an Old South, already too minutely 
autopsied in prose and poetry, should be left to rest in peace, forever 
dead and (let us fervently hope) forever done with".   Westbrook 
further bemoans the Southern writers' creation of an unreal image 
of their homeland, which is too readily assimilated by both foreign 
readers and visiting Yankees: "Our northerner is suspicious of 
all this crass evidence [of urbanization] presented to his senses. 
It bewilders and befuddles him. He is too deeply steeped in William 
Faulkner and Robert Penn Warren. The fumes of progress are in his 
nose and the bright steel of industry towers before his eyes, but his 
heart is away in Yoknapatawpha County with razorback hogs and night 
riders. On this trip to the South he wants, above all else, to sniff 
the effluvium of backwoods-and-sand-hill subhumanity and to see at 
least one barn burn at midnight". Obviously, such a Northern tourist's 
purpose is somewhat akin to a child's experience with Disneyland: 
he <wants> to see a world of make-believe.   In the 
meantime, while the South has been undergoing this phenomenal modernization 
that is so disappointing to the curious Yankee, Southern writers 
have certainly done little to reflect and promote their region's 
progress. Willard Thorp, in his new book <American Writing in 
the Twentieth Century>, observes, quite validly it seems: "**h 
Certain subjects are conspicuously absent or have been only lightly touched. 
No southern novelist has done for Atlanta or Birmingham what 
Herrick, Dreiser, and Farrell did for Chicago or Dos Passos did 
for New York **h There are almost no fictional treatments of the 
industrialized south". Not a single Southern author, major or minor, 
has made the urban problems of an urban South his primary source material.

Faulkner, for one, appears to be safe from the accusing 
fingers of all assailants in this regard. Faulkner culminates the 
Southern legend perhaps more masterfully than it has ever been, or could 
ever be, done. He has made it his, and his it remains, irrevocably. 
He treats it with a mythological, universal application.   As 
his disciples boast, even though his emphasis is elsewhere, Faulkner 
does show his awareness of the changing order of the South quite keenly, 
as can be proven by a quick recalling of his Sartoris and Snopes 
families. Even two decades ago in <Go Down, Moses> Faulkner 
was looking to the more urban future with a glimmer of hope that through 
its youth and its new way of life the South might be reborn and the 
curse of slavery erased from its soil. Yet his concern even here is 
with a slowly changing socio-economic order in general, and he never 
deals with such specific aspects of this change as the urban and industrial 
impact.   Faulkner traces, in his vast and overpowering saga 
of Yoknapatawpha County, the gradual changes which seep into the 
South, building layer upon layer of minute, subtle innovation which eventually 
tend largely to hide the Old Way. Thus Faulkner reminds 
us, and wisely, that the "new" South has gradually evolved out of 
the Old South, and consequently its agrarian roots persist. Yet he 
presents a realm of source material which may well serve other writers 
if not himself: the problems with which a New South must grapple 
in groping through a blind adolescence into the maturity of urbanization. 
With new mechanization the modern farmer must perform the work of 
six men: a machine stands between the agrarian and his soil. The 
thousands of city migrants who desert the farms yearly must readjust with 
even greater stress and tension: the sacred wilderness is gradually 
surrendering to suburbs and research parks and industrial areas.

Another element to concern the choreographer is that of the visual 
devices of the theatre. Most avant-garde creators, true to their 
interest in the self-sufficiency of pure movement, have tended to dress 
their dancers in simple lines and solid colors (often black) and to 
give them a bare cyclorama for a setting. But Robert Rauschenberg, 
the neo-dadaist artist, has collaborated with several of them. He has 
designed a matching backdrop and costumes of points of color on white 
for Mr& Cunningham's <Summerspace>, so that dancers and background 
merge into a shimmering unity. For Mr& Taylor's <Images 
and Reflections> he made some diaphanous tents that alternately 
hide and reveal the performer, and a girl's cape lined with grass. Mr& 
Nikolais has made a distinctive contribution to the arts of costume 
and decor. In fact, he calls his productions dance-theatre works 
of motion, shape, light, and sound. To raise the dancer out of his personal, 
pedestrian self, Mr& Nikolais has experimented with relating 
him to a larger, environmental orbit. He began with masks to make 
the dancer identify himself with the creature he appeared to be. He 
went on to use objects- hoops, poles, capes- which he employed as 
extensions of the body of the dancer, who moved with them. The depersonalization 
continued as the dancer was further metamorphosed by the play 
of lights upon his figure. In each case, the object, the color, even 
the percussive sounds of the electronic score were designed to become 
part of the theatrical being of the performer. The dancer who never 
loosens her hold on a parasol, begins to feel that it is part of herself. 
Or, clad from head to toe in fabric stretched over a series of 
hoops, the performer may well lose his sense of self in being a "finial". 
As the dancer is depersonalized, his accouterments are animized, 
and the combined elements give birth to a new being. From this being 
come new movement ideas that utilize dancer and property as a single 
unit.   Thus, the avant-garde choreographers have extended the 
scope of materials available for dance composition. But, since they 
have rejected both narrative and emotional continuity, how are they 
to unify the impressive array of materials at their disposal? Some 
look deliberately to devices used by creators in the other arts and apply 
corresponding methods to their own work. Others, less consciously 
but quite probably influenced by the trends of the times, experiment 
with approaches that parallel those of the contemporary poet, painter, 
and musician.   An approach that has appealed to some choreographers 
is reminiscent of Charles Olson's statement of the process 
of projective verse: "one perception must immediately and directly 
lead to a further perception". The creator trusts his intuition to 
lead him along a path that has internal validity because it mirrors 
the reality of his experience. He disdains external restrictions- conventional 
syntax, traditional metre. The unit of form is determined 
subjectively: "the Heart, by the way of the Breath, to the Line". 
The test of form is fidelity to the experience, a gauge also accepted 
by the abstract expressionist painters.   An earlier but 
still influential school of painting, surrealism, had suggested the way 
of dealing with the dream experience, that event in which seemingly 
incongruous objects are linked together through the curious associations 
of the subconscious. The resulting picture might appear a maze of 
restless confusions and contradictions, but it is more true to life than 
a portrait of an artificially contrived order. The contemporary painter 
tends to depict not the concrete objects of his experience but 
their essences as revealed in abstractions of their lines, colors, masses, 
and energies. He is still concerned, however, with a personal event. 
He accepts the accidents of his brushwork because they provide evidence 
of the vitality of the experience of creation. The work must 
be true to both the physical and the spiritual character of the experience.

Some painters have less interest in the experience of the 
moment, with its attendant urgencies and ambiguities, than in looking 
beyond the flux of particular impressions to a higher, more serene level 
of truth. Rather than putting their trust in ephemeral sensations 
they seek form in the stable relationships of pure design, which symbolize 
an order more real than the disorder of the perceptual world. The 
concept remains subjective. But in this approach it is the artist's 
ultimate insight, rather than his immediate impressions, that gives 
form to the work.   Others look to more objective devices of 
order. The musician employing the serial technique of composition establishes 
a mathematical system of rotations that, once set in motion, 
determines the sequence of pitches and even of rhythms and intensities. 
The composer may reverse or invert the order of his original set of 
intervals (or rhythms or dynamic changes). He may even alter the pattern 
by applying a scheme of random numbers. But he cannot order his 
elements by will, either rational or inspired. The system works as an 
impersonal mechanism. Musicians who use the chance method also exclude 
subjective control of formal development. Again, the composer must 
select his own materials. But a tossing of coins, with perhaps the added 
safeguard of reference to the oracles of the <I Ching>, the Chinese 
Book of Changes, dictates the handling of the chosen materials.

Avant-garde choreographers, seeking new forms of continuity 
for their new vocabulary of movements, have turned to similar approaches. 
Some let dances take their form from the experience of creation. 
According to Katherine Litz, "the becoming, the process of realization, 
is the dance". The process stipulates that the choreographer 
sense the quality of the initial movement he has discovered and that 
he feel the rightness of the quality that is to follow it. The sequence 
may involve a sharp contrast: for example, a quiet meditative sway 
of the body succeeded by a violent leap; or it may involve more subtle 
distinctions: the sway may be gradually minimized or enlarged, 
its rhythmic emphasis may be slightly modified, or it may be transferred 
to become a movement of only the arms or the head. Even the least 
alteration will change the quality. An exploration of these possible 
relationships constitutes the process of creation and thereby gives form 
to the dance.   The approach to the depiction of the experience 
of creation may be analytic, as it is for Miss Litz, or spontaneous, 
as it is for Merle Marsicano. She, too, is concerned with "the 
becoming, the process of realization", but she does not think in 
terms of subtle variations of spatial or temporal patterns. The design 
is determined emotionally: "I must reach into myself for the spring 
that will send me catapulting recklessly into the chaos of event 
with which the dance confronts me". Looking back, Miss Marsicano 
feels that her ideas may have been influenced by those of Jackson Pollock. 
At one time she felt impelled to make dances that "moved all 
over the stage", much as Pollock's paintings move violently over 
the full extent of the canvas. But her conscious need was to break away 
from constricting patterns of form, a need to let the experience shape 
itself.   Midi Garth also believes in subjective continuity 
that begins with the feeling engendered by an initial movement. It 
may be a free front-back swing of the leg, leading to a sideways swing 
of the arm that develops into a turn and the sensation of taking off 
from the ground. This became a dance called <Prelude to Flight>. 
A pervading quality of free lyricism and a building from turns close 
to the ground towards jumps into the air gives the work its central focus.

Alwin Nikolais objects to art as an outpouring of personal 
emotion. He seeks to make his dancers more "godlike" by relating 
them to the impersonal elements of shape, light color, and sound. If 
his dancers are sometimes made to look as if they might be creatures 
from Mars, this is consistent with his intention of placing them in 
the orbit of another world, a world in which they are freed of their 
pedestrian identities. It is through the metamorphosed dancer that the 
germ of form is discovered. In his recognition of his impersonal self 
the dancer moves, and this self, in the "first revealed stroke of 
its existence", states the theme from which all else must follow. The 
theme may be the formation of a shape from which other shapes evolve. 
It may be a reaction to a percussive sound, the following movements 
constituting further reactions. It may establish the relation of the 
figure of the dancer to light and color, in which case changes in the 
light or color will set off a kaleidescope of visual designs. Unconcerned 
with the practical function of his actions, the dancer is engrossed 
exclusively in their "motional content". Movements unfold freely 
because they are uninhibited by emotional bias or purposive drive. 
But the metamorphosis must come first.   Though he is also concerned 
with freeing dance from pedestrian modes of activity, Merce 
Cunningham has selected a very different method for achieving his aim. 
He rejects all subjectively motivated continuity, any line of action 
related to the concept of cause and effect. He bases his approach 
on the belief that anything can follow anything. An order can be chanced 
rather than chosen, and this approach produces an experience that 
is "free and discovered rather than bound and remembered". Thus, 
there is freshness not only in the individual movements of the dance 
but in the shape of their continuity as well. Chance, he finds, enables 
him to create "a world beyond imagination". He cites with pleasure 
the comment of a lady, who exclaimed after a concert: "Why, 
it's extremely interesting. But I would never have thought of it myself".

The sequence of movements in a Cunningham dance is 
unlike any sequence to be seen in life. At one side of the stage a dancer 
jumps excitedly; nearby, another sits motionless, while still another 
is twirling an umbrella. A man and a girl happen to meet; they 
look straight at the audience, not at each other. He lifts her, puts 
her down, and walks off, neither pleased nor disturbed, as if nothing 
had happened. If one dancer slaps another, the victim may do a pirouette, 
sit down, or offer his assailant a fork and spoon. Events occur 
without apparent reason. Their consequences are irrelevant- or there 
are no consequences at all.   The sequence is determined by 
chance, and Mr& Cunningham makes use of any one of several chance 
devices. He may toss coins; he may take slips of paper from a grab 
bag. The answers derived by these means may determine not only the temporal 
organization of the dance but also its spatial design, special 
slips designating the location on the stage where the movement is to be 
performed. The other variables include the dancer who is to perform 
the movement and the length of time he is to take in its performance. 
The only factors that are personally set by the choreographer are the 
movements themselves, the number of the dancers, and the approximate 
total duration of the dance. The "approximate" is important, because 
even after the order of the work has been established by the chance 
method, the result is not inviolable. Each performance may be different. 
If a work is divided into several large segments, a last-minute 
drawing of random numbers may determine the order of the segments for 
any particular performance. And any sequence can not only change its 
positions in the work but can even be eliminated from it altogether.

Mr& Cunningham tries not to cheat the chance method; he 
adheres to its dictates as faithfully as he can. However, there is always 
the possibility that chance will make demands the dancers find impossible 
to execute. Then the choreographer must arbitrate. He must 
rearrange matters so that two performers do not bump into each other. 
He must construct transitions so that a dancer who is told to lie prone 
one second and to leap wildly the next will have some physical preparation 
for the leap.

THE NORTH AND THE SOUTH were in greater agreement on sovereignty, 
through all their dispute about it, than were the Founding Fathers. 
The truth in their conflicting concepts was expounded by statesmen 
of the calibre of Webster and Calhoun, and defended in the end 
by leaders of the nobility of Lincoln and Lee. The people everywhere 
had grown meanwhile in devotion to basic democratic principles, in 
understanding of and belief in the federal balance, and in love of their 
Union. Repeated efforts- beginning with the Missouri Compromise 
of 1821- were made by such master moderates as Clay and Douglas 
to resolve the difference peacefully by compromise, rather than clear 
thought and timely action. Even so, confusion in this period gained 
such strength (from compromise and other factors) that it led to the 
bloodiest war of the Nineteenth century. Nothing can show more than 
this the immensity of the danger to democratic peoples that lies in 
even relatively slight deviation from their true concept of sovereignty.

The present issue in Atlantica- whether to transform an 
alliance of sovereign nations into a federal union of sovereign citizens- 
resembles the American one of 1787-89 rather than the one that 
was resolved by Civil War. And so I would only touch upon it now 
(much as I have long wanted to write a book about it). I think it is 
essential, however, to pinpoint here the difference between the two concepts 
of sovereignty that went to war in 1861- if only to see better 
how imperative is our need today to clarify completely our far worse 
confusion on this subject.   The difference came down to this: 
The Southern States insisted that the United States was, in last 
analysis, what its name implied- a Union of States. To their leaders 
the Constitution was a compact made by the people of sovereign 
states, who therefore retained the right to secede from it. This right 
of the State, its upholders contended, was essential to maintain 
the federal balance and protect the liberty of the people from the danger 
of centralizing power in the Union government. The champions of 
the Union maintained that the Constitution had formed, fundamentally, 
the united people of America, that it was a compact among sovereign 
citizens rather than states, and that therefore the states had no right 
to secede, though the citizens could. Writing to Speed on August 
24, 1855, Lincoln made the latter point clear. In homely terms whose 
timeliness is startling today, he thus declared his own right to secede. 
"  We began by declaring that <all men are created equal>. 
We now practically read it, <all men are created equal except negroes>. 
When the Know-nothings get control, it will read, <All 
men 
are created equal except negroes> and foreigners and Catholics. When 
it comes to this, I shall prefer emigrating to some country where 
they make no pretence of loving liberty- to Russia, for instance, where 
despotism can be taken pure, without the base alloy of hypocrisy". 
[His emphasis]   When the Southern States exercised 
their "right to secede", they formed what they officially styled "The 
Confederate States of America". Dictionaries, as we have 
seen, still cite this government, along with the Articles of Confederation 
of 1781, as an example of a confederacy. The fact is that the 
Southern Confederacy differed from the earlier one almost as much as 
the Federal Constitution did. The Confederate Constitution copied 
much of the Federal Constitution verbatim, and most of the rest in 
substance. It operated on, by and for the people individually just as 
did the Federal Constitution. It made substantially the same division 
of power between the central and state governments, and among the 
executive, legislative and judicial branches. 

#THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN 
CONFEDERACY AND FEDERAL UNION IN 1861#

Many believe- and understandably- 
that the great difference between the Constitution of 
the Southern Confederacy and the Federal Constitution was that the 
former recognized the right of each state to secede. But though each 
of its members had asserted this right against the Union, the final 
Constitution which the Confederacy signed on March 11- nearly a month 
before hostilities began- included no explicit provision authorizing 
a state to secede. Its drafters discussed this vital point but 
left it out of their Constitution. Their President, Jefferson Davis, 
interpreted their Constitution to mean that it "admits of no coerced 
association", but this reremained so doubtful that "there were 
frequent demands that the right to secede be put into the Constitution".

The Constitution of the Southern "Confederation" 
differed from that of the Federal Union only in two important respects: 
It openly, defiantly, recognized slavery- an institution 
which the Southerners of 1787, even though they continued it, found so 
impossible to reconcile with freedom that they carefully avoided mentioning 
the word in the Federal Constitution. They recognized that 
slavery was a moral issue and not merely an economic interest, and that 
to recognize it explicitly in their Constitution would be in explosive 
contradiction to the concept of sovereignty they had set forth in 
the Declaration of 1776 that "all men are created equal, that they 
are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among 
them are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness **h". The 
other important difference between the two Constitutions was that the 
President of the Confederacy held office for six (instead of four) 
years, and was limited to one term.   These are not, however, differences 
in federal structure. The only important differences from that 
standpoint, between the two Constitutions, lies in their Preambles. 
The one of 1861 made clear that in making their government the people 
were acting through their states, whereas the Preamble of 1787-89 
expressed, as clearly as language can, the opposite concept, that they 
were acting directly as citizens. Here are the two Preambles: _FEDERAL 
CONSTITUTION, 1789_ "we the People of the United States, 
in order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure 
domestic Tranquility, provide for the common Defence, promote the general 
Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and 
our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United 
States of America". _CONFEDERATE CONSTITUTION, 1861_ "We 
the people of the Confederate States, each state acting in its 
sovereign and independent character, in order to form a permanent federal 
government, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, and secure 
the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity- invoking 
the favor and the guidance of Almighty God- do ordain and establish 
this Constitution for the Confederate States of America".

One is tempted to say that, on the difference between the concepts 
of sovereignty in these two preambles, the worst war of the Nineteenth 
century was fought. But though the Southern States, when drafting 
a constitution to unite themselves, narrowed the difference to this 
fine point by omitting to assert the right to secede, the fact remained 
that by seceding from the Union they had already acted on the concept 
that it was composed primarily of sovereign states. If the Union 
conceded this to them, the same right must be conceded to each remaining 
state whenever it saw fit to secede: This would destroy the federal 
balance between it and the states, and in the end sacrifice to 
the sovereignty of the states all the liberty the citizens had gained 
by their Union.   Lincoln saw that the act of secession made the 
issue for the Union a vital one: Whether it was a Union of sovereign 
citizens that should continue to live, or an association of sovereign 
states that must fall prey either to "anarchy or despotism".

Much as he abhorred slavery, Lincoln was always willing to 
concede to each "slave state" the right to decide independently whether 
to continue or end it. Though his election was interpreted by 
many Southerners as the forerunner of a dangerous shift in the federal 
balance in favor of the Union, Lincoln himself proposed no such change 
in the rights the Constitution gave the states. After the war began, 
he long refused to permit emancipation of the slaves by Union action 
even in the Border States that stayed with the Union. He issued 
his Emancipation Proclamation only when he felt that necessity left 
him no other way to save the Union. In his Message of December 
2, 1862, he put his purpose and his policy in these words- which I 
would call the Lincoln Law of Liberty-and-Union: <"In giving 
freedom to the slave, we assure freedom to the free">.   What 
Lincoln could not concede was that the states rather than the people 
were sovereign in the Union. He fought to the end to preserve it 
as a "government of the people, by the people, for the people". 

#THE 
TRUTH ON EACH SIDE WON IN THE CIVIL WAR#

The fact that the Americans 
who upheld the sovereignty of their states did this in order to 
keep many of their people more securely in slavery- the antithesis 
of individual liberty- made the conflict grimmer, and the greater. 
Out of this ordeal the citizen emerged, in the South as in the North, 
as America's true sovereign, in "a new birth of freedom", as 
Lincoln promised. But before this came about, 214,938 Americans had 
given their lives in battle for the two concepts of the sovereign rights 
of men and of states.   On their decisive battlefield Lincoln 
did not distinguish between them when he paid tribute to the "brave 
men, living and dead, who fought here". He understood that both 
sides were at fault, and he reached the height of saying so explicitly 
in his Second Inaugural.   To my knowledge, Lincoln remains 
the only Head of State and Commander-in-Chief who, while fighting 
a fearful war whose issue was in doubt, proved man enough to say this 
publicly- to give his foe the benefit of the fact that in all human 
truth there is some error, and in all our error, some truth. So great 
a man could not but understand, too, that the thing that moves men to 
sacrifice their lives is not the error of their thought, which their 
opponents see and attack, but the truth which the latter do not see- 
any more than they see the error which mars the truth they themselves 
defend.   It is much less difficult now than in Lincoln's day 
to see that on both sides sovereign Americans had given their lives 
in the Civil War to maintain the balance between the powers they had 
delegated to the States and to their Union. They differed in the 
balance they believed essential to the sovereignty of the citizen- 
but the supreme sacrifice each made served to maintain a still more fundamental 
truth: That individual life, liberty and happiness depend 
on a right balance between the two- and on the limitation of sovereignty, 
in all its aspects, which this involves. The 140,414 Americans 
who gave "the last full measure of devotion" to prevent disunion, 
preserved individual freedom in the United States from the dangers 
of anarchy, inherent in confederations, which throughout history have 
proved fatal in the end to all associations composed primarily of sovereign 
states, and to the liberties of their people. But the fact that 
70,524 other Americans gave the same measure of devotion to an opposing 
concept served Liberty-and-Union in other essential ways.

Its appeal from ballots to bullets at Fort Sumter ended by costing 
the Southerners their right to have slaves- a right that was even 
less compatible with the sovereignty of man. The very fact that they 
came so near to winning by the wrong method, war, led directly to their 
losing both the war and the wrong thing they fought for, since it forced 
Lincoln to free their slaves as a military measure. There was 
a divine justice in one wrong thus undoing another. There was also a 
lesson, one that has served ever since to keep Americans, in their conflicts 
with one another, from turning from the ballot to the bullet. 
Yet though the Southern States lost the worst errors in their case, 
they did not lose the truth they fought for. The lives so many of them 
gave, to forestall what they believed would be a fatal encroachment 
by the Union on the powers reserved to their states have continued 
ever since to safeguard all Americans against freedom's other foe. 
As cells coalesced into organisms, they built new "unnatural" and 
internally controlled environments to cope even more successfully with 
the entropy-increasing properties of the external world. The useful 
suggestion of Professor David Hawkins which considers culture as a 
third stage in biological evolution fits quite beautifully then with 
our suggestion that science has provided us with a rather successful technique 
for building protective artificial environments. One wonders 
about its applicability to people. Will advances in human sciences help 
us build social structures and governments which will enable us to 
cope with people as effectively as the primitive combination of protein 
and nucleic acid built a structure of molecules which enabled it to 
adapt to a sea of molecular interaction? The answer is of course yes. 
For the family is the simplest example of just such a unit, composed 
of people, which gives us both some immunity from, and a way of dealing 
with, other people. Social invention did not have to await social 
theory any more than use of the warmth of a fire had to await Lavoisier 
or the buoyant protection of a boat the formulations of Archimedes. 
But it has been during the last two centuries, during the scientific 
revolution, that our independence from the physical environment has 
made the most rapid strides. We have ample light when the sun sets; 
the temperature of our homes is independent of the seasons; we fly 
through the air, although gravity pulls us down; the range of our 
voice ignores distance. At what stage are social sciences then? Is 
the future of psychology akin to the rich future of physics at the time 
of Newton? There is a haunting resemblance between the notion 
of cause in Copernicus and in Freud. And it is certainly no slight 
to either of them to compare both their achievements and their impact.

Political theoretical understanding, although almost at a standstill 
during this century, did develop during the eighteenth and nineteenth 
centuries, and resulted in a flood of inventions which increased 
the possibility for man to coexist with man. Consitutional government, 
popular vote, trial by jury, public education, labor unions, cooperatives, 
communes, socialized ownership, world courts, and the veto 
power in world councils are but a few examples. Most of these, with 
horrible exceptions, were conceived as is a ship, not as an attempt to 
quell the ocean of mankind, nor to deny its force, but as a means to 
survive and enjoy it. The most effective political inventions seem to 
make maximum use of natural harbors and are aware that restraining breakwaters 
can play only a minor part in the whole scheme. Just as present 
technology had to await the explanations of physics, so one might 
expect that social invention will follow growing sociological understanding. 
We are desperately in the need of such invention, for man is 
still very much at the mercy of man. In fact the accumulation of the 
hardware of destruction is day by day increasing our fear of each other. 
#/3,#

I want, therefore, to discuss a second and quite different 
fruit of science, the connection between scientific understanding 
and fear. There are certainly large areas of understanding in the human 
sciences which in themselves and even without political invention 
can help to dispel our present fears. Lucretius has remarked: "The 
reason why all Mortals are so gripped by fear is that they see all 
sorts of things happening in the earth and sky with no discernable cause, 
and these they attribute to the will of God". Perhaps things 
were even worse then. It is difficult to reconstruct the primeval fears 
of man. We get some clue from a few remembrances of childhood and 
from the circumstance that we are probably not much more afraid of people 
now than man ever was. We are not now afraid of atomic bombs in 
the same way that people once feared comets. The bombs are as harmless 
as an automobile in a garage. We are worried about what people may 
do with them- that some crazy fool may "push the button". 
I am certainly not adequately trained to describe or enlarge on human 
fears, but there are certain features of the fears dispelled by scientific 
explanations that stand out quite clearly. They are in general 
those fears that once seemed to have been amenable to prayer or ritual. 
They include both individual fears and collective ones. They arise 
in situations in which one believes that what happens depends not 
only on the external world, but also on the precise pattern of behavior 
of the individual or group. Often it is recognized that all the details 
of the pattern may not be essential to the outcome but, because 
the pattern was empirically determined and not developed through theoretical 
understanding, one is never quite certain which behavior elements 
are effective, and the whole pattern becomes ritualized. Yet often 
fear persists because, even with the most rigid ritual, one is never 
quite free from the uneasy feeling that one might make some mistake or 
that in every previous execution one had been unaware of the really decisive 
act. To say that science had reduced many such fears merely reiterates 
the obvious and frequent statement that science eliminated much 
of magic and superstition. But a somewhat more detailed analysis 
of this process may be illuminating.   The frequently postulated 
antique worry that the daylight hours might dwindle to complete darkness 
apparently gave rise to a ritual and celebration which we still recognize. 
It is curious that even centuries of repetition of the yearly 
cycle did not induce a sufficient degree of confidence to allow people 
to abandon the ceremonies of the winter solstice. This and other 
fears of the solar system have disappeared gradually, first, with the 
Ptolemaic 
system and its built-in concept of periodicity and then, more 
firmly, with the Newtonian innovation of an universal force that could 
account quantitatively for both terrestial and celestial motions. 
This understanding provides a very simple example of the fact that one 
can eliminate fear without instituting any controls. In fact, although 
we have dispelled the fear, we have not necessarily assured ourselves 
that there are no dangers. There is still the remote possibility 
of planetoid collision. A meteor could fall on San Francisco. Solar 
activities could presumably bring long periods of flood or drought. 
Our understanding of the solar system has taught us to replace our 
former elaborate rituals with the appropriate action which, in this case, 
amounts to doing nothing. Yet we no longer feel uneasy. This almost 
trivial example is nevertheless suggestive, for there are some elements 
in common between the antique fear that the days would get shorter 
and shorter and our present fear of war. We, in our country, think 
of war as an external threat which, if it occurs, will not be primarily 
of our own doing. And yet we obviously also believe that the avoidance 
of the disaster depends in some obscure or at least uncertain way 
on the details of how we behave. What elements of our behavior are decisive? 
Our weapons production, our world prestige, our ideas of democracy, 
our actions of trust or stubbornness or secrecy or espionage? 
We have staved off a war and, since our behavior has involved all 
these elements, we can only keep adding to our ritual without daring 
to abandon any part of it, since we have not the slightest notion which 
parts are effective.   I think that we are here also talking of 
the kind of fear that a young boy has for a group of boys who are approaching 
at night along the streets of a large city. If an automobile 
were approaching him, he would know what was required of him, even though 
he might not be able to act quickly enough. With the group of boys 
it is different. He does not know whether to look up or look aside, 
to put his hands in his pockets or to clench them at his side, to cross 
the street, or to continue on the same side. When confronted with 
a drunk or an insane person I have no notion of what any one of them 
might do to me or to himself or to others. I believe that what I do 
has some effect on his actions and I have learned, in a way, to commune 
with drunks, but certainly my actions seem to resemble more nearly 
the performance of a rain dance than the carrying out of an experiment 
in physics. I am usually filled with an uneasiness that through some 
unwitting slip all hell may break loose. Our inability to explain 
why certain people are fond of us frequently induces the same kind of 
ritual and malaise. We are forced, in our behavior towards others, to 
adopt empirically successful patterns in toto because we have such a 
minimal understanding of their essential elements.   Our collective 
policies, group and national, are similarly based on voodoo, but 
here we often lack even the empirically successful rituals and are still 
engaged in determing them. We use terms from our personal experience 
with individuals such as "trust", "cheat", and "get tough". 
We talk about national character in the same way that Copernicus 
talked of the compulsions of celestial bodies to move in circles. We 
perform elaborate international exhortations and ceremonies with virtually 
no understanding of social cause and effect. Small wonder, then, 
that we fear.   The achievements which dispelled our fears of 
the cosmos took place three centuries ago. What additional roles has 
the scientific understanding of the 19th and 20th centuries played? 
In the physical sciences, these achievements concern electricity, chemistry, 
and atomic physics. In the life sciences, there has been an 
enormous increase in our understanding of disease, in the mechanisms of 
heredity, and in bio- and physiological chemistry. The major effect 
of these advances appears to lie in the part they have played in the 
industrial revolution and in the tools which scientific understanding 
has given us to build and manipulate a more protective environment. In 
addition, our way of dealing directly with natural phenomena has also 
changed. Even in domains where detailed and predictive understanding 
is still lacking, but where some explanations are possible, as with 
lightning and weather and earthquakes, the appropriate kind of human action 
has been more adequately indicated.   Apparently the population 
as a whole eventually acquires enough confidence in the explanations 
of the scientists to modify its procedures and its fears. How and 
why this process occurs would provide an interesting separate subject 
for study. In some areas, the progress is slower than in others. In 
agriculture, for example, despite the advances in biology, elaborate 
rituals tend to persist along with a continued sense of the imminence 
of some natural disaster. In child care, the opposite extreme prevails; 
procedures change rapidly and parental confidence probably exceeds 
anything warranted by established psychological theory. There are 
many domains in which understanding has brought about widespread and quite 
appropriate reduction in ritual and fear. Much of the former extreme 
uneasiness associated with visions and hallucinations and with death 
has disappeared. The persistent horror of having a malformed child 
has, I believe, been reduced, not because we have gained any control 
over this misfortune, but precisely because we have learned that we 
have so little control over it. In fact, the recent warnings about the 
use of ~X-rays have introduced fears and ambiguities of action which 
now require more detailed understanding, and thus in this instance, 
science has momentarily aggravated our fears. In fact, insofar as 
science generates any fear, it stems not so much from scientific prowess 
and gadgets but from the fact that new unanswered questions arise, 
which, until they are understood, create uncertainty.   Perhaps 
the most illuminating example of the reduction of fear through understanding 
is derived from our increased knowledge of the nature of disease. 
The situation with regard to our attitude and "control" of disease 
contains close analogies to problems confronting us with respect 
to people. The fear of disease was formerly very much the kind of fear 
I have tried to describe. 
##

Nothing like Godot, he arrived before the hour. His letter had 
suggested we meet at my hotel at noon on Sunday, and I came into 
the lobby as the clock struck twelve. He was waiting.   My wish 
to meet Samuel Beckett had been prompted by simple curiosity and interest 
in his work. American newspaper reviewers like to call his plays 
nihilistic. They find deep pessimism in them. Even so astute a commentator 
as Harold Clurman of <The Nation> has said that "Waiting 
for Godot" is "the concentrate **h of the contemporary European 
**h mood of despair". But to me Beckett's writing had seemed 
permeated with love for human beings and with a kind of humor that 
I could reconcile neither with despair nor with nihilism. Could it 
be that my own eyes and ears had deceived me? Is his a literature of 
defeat, irrelevant to the social crises we face? Or is it relevant 
because it teaches us something useful to know about ourselves?

I knew that a conversation with the author would not settle such 
questions, because a man is not the same as his writing: in the last 
analysis, the questions had to be settled by the work itself. Nevertheless 
I was curious.   My curiosity was sharpened a day or two 
before the interview by a conversation I had with a well-informed teacher 
of literature, a Jesuit father, at a conference on religious 
drama near Paris. When Beckett's name came into the discussion, 
the priest 
grew loud and told me that Beckett "hates life". That, 
I thought, is at least one thing I can find out when we meet. ## 

Beckett's appearance is rough-hewn Irish. The features of his face 
are distinct, but not fine. They look as if they had been sculptured 
with an unsharpened chisel. Unruly hair goes straight up from his 
forehead, standing so high that the top falls gently over, as if to show 
that it really is hair and not bristle. One might say it combines 
the man; own pride and humility. For he has the pride that comes of 
self-acceptance and the humility, perhaps of the same genesis, not to 
impose himself upon another. His light blue eyes, set deep within the 
face, are actively and continually looking. He seems, by some unconscious 
division of labor, to have given them that one function and no 
other, leaving communication to the rest of the face. The mouth frequently 
breaks into a disarming smile. The voice is light in timbre, with 
a rough edge that corresponds to his visage. The Irish accent is, 
as one would expect, combined with slight inflections from the French. 
His tweed suit was a baggy gray and green. He wore a brown knit 
sports shirt with no tie.   We walked down the Rue de L'Arcade, 
thence along beside the Madeleine and across to a sidewalk cafe 
opposite that church. The conversation that ensued may have been engrossing 
but it could hardly be called world-shattering. For one thing, 
the world that Beckett sees is already shattered. His talk turns to 
what he calls "the mess", or sometimes "this buzzing confusion". 
I reconstruct his sentences from notes made immediately after our 
conversation. What appears here is shorter than what he actually said 
but very close to his own words.   "The confusion is not my 
invention. We cannot listen to a conversation for five minutes without 
being acutely aware of the confusion. It is all around us and our 
only chance now is to let it in. The only chance of renovation is to 
open our eyes and see the mess. It is not a mess you can make sense of".

I suggested that one must let it in because it is the truth, 
but Beckett did not take to the word truth.   "What is more 
true than anything else? To swim is true, and to sink is true. 
One is not more true than the other. One cannot speak anymore of being, 
one must speak only of the mess. When Heidegger and Sartre speak 
of a contrast between being and existence, they may be right, I don't 
know, but their language is too philosophical for me. I am not a 
philosopher. One can only speak of what is in front of him, and that 
now is simply the mess".   Then he began to speak about the tension 
in art between the mess and form. Until recently, art has withstood 
the pressure of chaotic things. It has held them at bay. It realized 
that to admit them was to jeopardize form. "How could the mess 
be admitted, because it appears to be the very opposite of form and 
therefore destructive of the very thing that art holds itself to be"? 
But now we can keep it out no longer, because we have come into a 
time when "it invades our experience at every moment. It is there 
and it must be allowed in".   I granted this might be so, but 
found the result to be even more attention to form than was the case previously. 
And why not? How, I asked, could chaos be admitted to 
chaos? Would not that be the end of thinking and the end of art? 
If we look at recent art we find it preoccupied with form. Beckett's 
own work is an example. Plays more highly formalized than "Waiting 
for Godot", "Endgame", and "Krapp's Last Tape" would 
be hard to find.   "What I am saying does not mean that there 
will henceforth be no form in art. It only means that there will 
be new form, and that this form will be of such a type that it admits 
the chaos and does not try to say that the chaos is really something 
else. The form and the chaos remain separate. The latter is not reduced 
to the former. That is why the form itself becomes a preoccupation, 
because it exists as a problem separate from the material it accommodates. 
To find a form that accommodates the mess, that is the task of 
the artist now".   Yet, I responded, could not similar things 
be said about the art of the past? Is it not characteristic of the 
greatest art that it confronts us with something we cannot clarify, 
demanding that the viewer respond to it in his own never-predictable 
way? What is the history of criticism but the history of men attempting 
to make sense of the manifold elements in art that will not allow 
themselves to be reduced to a single philosophy or a single aesthetic 
theory? Isn't all art ambiguous?   "Not this", he said, 
and gestured toward the Madeleine. The classical lines of the church 
which Napoleon thought of as a Temple of Glory, dominated all 
the scene where we sat. The Boulevard de la Madeleine, the Boulevard 
Malesherbes, and the Rue Royale ran to it with graceful flattery, 
bearing tidings of the Age of Reason. "Not this. This is clear. 
This does not allow the mystery to invade us. With classical art, 
all is settled. But it is different at Chartres. There is the unexplainable, 
and there art raises questions that it does not attempt to 
answer".   I asked about the battle between life and death in 
his plays. Didi and Gogo hover on the edge of suicide; Hamm's 
world is death and Clov may or may not get out of it to join the living 
child outside. Is this life-death question a part of the chaos?

"Yes. If life and death did not both present themselves to 
us, there would be no inscrutability. If there were only darkness, all 
would be clear. It is because there is not only darkness but also 
light that our situation becomes inexplicable. Take Augustine's doctrine 
of grace given and grace withheld: have you pondered the dramatic 
qualities in this theology? Two thieves are crucified with Christ, 
one saved and the other damned. How can we make sense of this 
division? In classical drama, such problems do not arise. The destiny 
of Racine's Phedre is sealed from the beginning: she will proceed 
into the dark. As she goes, she herself will be illuminated. At 
the beginning of the play she has partial illumination and at the end 
she has complete illumination, but there has been no question but that 
she moves toward the dark. That is the play. Within this notion clarity 
is possible, but for us who are neither Greek nor Jansenist there 
is not such clarity. The question would also be removed if we believed 
in the contrary- total salvation. But where we have both dark 
and light we have also the inexplicable. The key word in my plays is 
'perhaps'". ##

Given a theological lead, I asked what he 
thinks about those who find a religious significance to his plays.

"Well, really there is none at all. I have no religious feeling. 
Once I had a religious emotion. It was at my first Communion. 
No more. My mother was deeply religious. So was my brother. He knelt 
down at his bed as long as he could kneel. My father had none. The 
family was Protestant, but for me it was only irksome and I let it 
go. My brother and mother got no value from their religion when they 
died. At the moment of crisis it had no more depth than an old-school 
tie. Irish Catholicism is not attractive, but it is deeper. When 
you pass a church on an Irish bus, all the hands flurry in the sign of 
the cross. One day the dogs of Ireland will do that too and perhaps 
also the pigs".   But do the plays deal with the same facets 
of experience religion must also deal with?   "Yes, for they 
deal with distress. Some people object to this in my writing. At a 
party an English intellectual- so-called- asked me why I write 
always about distress. As if it were perverse to do so! He wanted 
to know if my father had beaten me or my mother had run away from home 
to give me an unhappy childhood. I told him no, that I had had a very 
happy childhood. Then he thought me more perverse than ever. I left 
the party as soon as possible and got into a taxi. On the glass partition 
between me and the driver were three signs: one asked for help 
for the blind, another help for orphans, and the third for relief for 
the war refugees. One does not have to look for distress. It is screaming 
at you even in the taxis of London".   Lunch was over, 
and we walked back to the hotel with the light and dark of Paris screaming 
at us. ##

The personal quality of Samuel Beckett is similar 
to qualities I had found in the plays. He says nothing that compresses 
experience within a closed pattern. "Perhaps" stands in 
place of commitment. At the same time, he is plainly sympathetic, clearly 
friendly. If there were only the mess, all would be clear; but 
there is also compassion.   As a Christian, I know I do not 
stand where Beckett stands, but I do see much of what he sees. As a 
writer on the theater, I have paid close attention to the plays. Harold 
Clurman is right to say that "Waiting for Godot" is a reflection 
(he calls it a distorted reflection) "of the impasse and disarray 
of Europe's present politics, ethic, and common way of life". 
Yet it is not only Europe the play refers to. "Waiting for Godot" 
sells even better in America than in France. The consciousness 
it mirrors may have come earlier to Europe than to America, but it 
is the consciousness that most "mature" societies arrive at when 
their successes in technological and economic systematization propel 
them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture. 
America is now joining Europe in this "mature" phase of development. 
Whether any of us remain in it long will depend on what happens 
as a result of the technological and economic revolutions now going 
on in the countries of Asia and Africa, and also of course on how long 
the cold war remains cold. 
Even Hemingway, for all his efforts to formulate a naturalistic morality 
in <The Sun Also Rises> and <A Farewell to Arms> never 
maintained that sex was all. Hemingway's fiction is supported by a 
"moral" backbone and in its search for ultimate meaning hints at 
a religious dimension. And D& H& Lawrence, in <Fantasia of the 
Unconscious,> protested vehemently against the overestimation of 
the sexual motive. Though sex in some form or other enters into all human 
activity and it was a good thing that Freud emphasized this aspect 
of human nature, it is fantastic to explain everything in terms of 
sex. "All is <not> sex", declared Lawrence. Man is not confined 
to one outlet for his vital energy. The creative urge, for example, 
transcends the body and the self.   But for the beat generation 
all <is> sex. Nothing is more revealing of the way of life and literary 
aspirations of this group than their attitude toward sex. For 
the beatnik, like the hipster, is in opposition to a society that is based 
on the repression of the sex instinct. He has elevated sex- not 
Eros or libido but pure, spontaneous, uninhibited sex- to the rank 
of the godhead; it is Astarte, Ishtar, Venus, Yahwe, Dionysus, 
Christ, the mysterious and divine orgone energy flowing through the 
body of the universe. Jazz is sex, marijuana is a stimulus to sex, the 
beat tempo is adjusted to the orgiastic release of the sexual impulse. 
Lawrence Lipton, in <The Holy Barbarians,> stresses that for 
the beat generation sex is more than a source of pleasure; it is a 
mystique, and their private language is rich in the multivalent ambiguities 
of sexual reference so that they dwell in a sexualized universe 
of discourse. The singular uncompromising force of their revolt against 
the cult of restraint is illustrated by their refusal to dance in 
a public place. The dance is but a disguised ritual for the expression 
of ungratified sexual desire. For this reason, too, their language 
is more forthright and earthy. The beatniks crave a sexual experience 
in which their whole being participates.   It is therefore not 
surprising that they resist the lure of marriage and the trap of domesticity, 
for like cats they are determined not to tame their sexual energy. 
They withdraw to the underground of the slums where they can defy 
the precepts of legalized propriety. Unlike the heroes and flappers 
of the lost generation, they disdain the art of "necking" and "petting". 
That is reserved for the squares. If they avoid the use 
of the pungent, outlawed four-letter word it is because it is taboo; 
it is sacred. As Lipton, the prophet of the beat generation, declares: 
"In the sexual act, the beat are filled with mana, the divine 
power. This is far from the vulgar, leering sexuality of the middle-class 
square in heat". This is the Holy Grail these knights of 
the orgasm pursue, this is the irresistible cosmic urge to which they 
respond.   If Wilhelm Reich is the Moses who has led them out 
of the Egypt of sexual slavery, Dylan Thomas is the poet who offers 
them the Dionysian dialectic of justification for their indulgence 
in liquor, marijuana, sex, and jazz. In addition, they have been converted 
to Zen Buddhism, with its glorification of all that is "natural" 
and mysteriously alive, the sense that everything in the world 
is flowing. Thus, paradoxically, the beat writers resort to "religious" 
metaphors: they are in search of mana, the spiritual, the numinous, 
but not anything connected with formal religion. What they are 
after is the beatific vision. And Zen Buddhism, though it is extremely 
difficult to understand how these internal contradictions are reconciled, 
helps them in their struggle to achieve personal salvation through 
sexual release.   The style of life chosen by the beat generation, 
the rhythm and ritual they have adopted as uniquely their own, 
is designed to enhance the value of the sexual experience. Jazz is 
good not only because it promotes wholeness but because of its decided 
sexual effect. Jazz is the musical language of sex, the vocabulary of 
the orgasm; indeed, it is maintained that the sexual element in jazz, 
by freeing the listener of his inhibitions, can have therapeutic 
value. That is why, the argument runs, the squares are so fearful of 
jazz and yet perversely fascinated by it. Instead of giving themselves 
spontaneously to the orgiastic release that jazz can give them, they 
undergo psychoanalysis or flirt with mysticism or turn to prostitutes 
for satisfaction. Thus jazz is transmuted into something holy, the 
sacred road to integration of being. Jazz, like sex, is a mystique. It 
is not a substitute for sex but a dynamic expression of the creative 
impulse in unfettered man.   The mystique of sex, combined with 
marijuana and jazz, is intended to provide a design for living. Those 
who are sexually liberated can become creatively alive and free, their 
instincts put at the service of the imagination. Righteous in their 
denunciation of all that makes for death, the beat prophets bid all 
men become cool cats; let them learn to "swing" freely, to let 
go, to become authentically themselves, and then perhaps civilization 
will be saved. The beatnik, seceding from a society that is fatally 
afflicted with a deathward drive, is concerned with his personal salvation 
in the living present. If he is the child of nothingness, if he 
is the predestined victim of an age of atomic wars, then he will consult 
only his own organic needs and go beyond good and evil. He will not 
curb his instinctual desires but release the energy within him that 
makes him feel truly and fully alive, even if it is only for this brief 
moment before the apocalypse of annihilation explodes on earth.

That is why the members of the beat generation proudly assume the 
title of the holy barbarians; they will destroy the shrines, temples, 
museums, and churches of the state that is the implacable enemy of the 
life they believe in. Apart from the categorical imperative they derive 
from the metaphysics of the orgasm, the only affirmation they are 
capable of making is that art is their only refuge. Their writing, 
born of their experiments in marijuana and untrammeled sexuality, reflects 
the extremity of their existential alienation. The mind has betrayed 
them, reason is the foe of life; they will trust only their physical 
sensations, the wisdom of the body, the holy promptings of the unconscious. 
With lyrical intensity they reveal what they hate, but their 
faith in love, inspired by the revolutionary rhythms of jazz, culminates 
in the climax of the orgasm. Their work mirrors the mentality 
of the psychopath, rootless and irresponsible. Their rebellion against 
authoritarian society is not far removed from the violence of revolt 
characteristic of the juvenile delinquent.   And the life they 
lead is undisciplined and for the most part unproductive, even though 
they make a fetish of devoting themselves to some creative pursuit- 
writing, painting, music. They are non-conformists on principle. When 
they express themselves it is incandescent hatred that shines forth, 
the rage of repudiation, the ecstasy of negation. It is sex that obsesses 
them, sex that is at the basis of their aesthetic creed. What 
they discuss with dialectical seriousness is the degree to which sex can 
inspire the Muse. Monogamy is the vice from which the abjectly fearful 
middle class continue to suffer, whereas the beatnik has the courage 
to break out of that prison of respectability. One girl describes 
her past, her succession of broken marriages, the abortions she has 
had 
and finally confesses that she loves sex and sees no reason why she 
must justify her passion. If it is an honest feeling, then why should 
she not yield to it? "<Most> often", she says, "it's the 
<monogamous> relationship that is <dis>honest". There is nothing 
holy in wedlock. This girl soon drops the bourgeois pyschiatrist 
who disapproves of her life. She finds married life stifling and every 
prolonged sex relationship unbearably monotonous.   This confession 
serves to make clear in part what is behind this sexual revolution: 
the craving for sensation for its own sake, the need for change, 
for new experiences. Boredom is death. In the realm of physical sensations, 
sex reigns supreme. Hence the beatniks sustain themselves on 
marijuana, jazz, free swinging poetry, exhausting themselves in orgies 
of sex; some of them are driven over the borderline of sanity and 
lose contact with reality. One beat poet composes a poem, "Lines on 
a Tijuana John", which contains a few happy hints for survival. 
The new fact the initiates of this cult have to learn is that they must 
move toward simplicity. The professed mission of this disaffiliated 
generation is to find a new way of life which they can express in poetry 
and fiction, but what they produce is unfortunately disordered, nourished 
solely on the hysteria of negation.   Who are the creative 
representatives of this movement? Nymphomaniacs, junkies, homosexuals, 
drug addicts, lesbians, alcoholics, the weak, the frustrated, 
the irresolute, the despairing, the derelicts and outcasts of society. 
They embrace independent poverty, usually with a "shack-up" partner 
who will help support them. They are full of contempt for the institution 
of matrimony. Their previous legalized marriages do not count, 
for they hold the laws of the state null and void. They feel they 
are leagued against a hostile, persecutory world, faced with the concerted 
malevolent opposition of squares and their hirelings, the police. 
This is the rhetoric of righteousness the beatniks use in defending 
their way of life, their search for wholeness, though their actual existence 
fails to reach these "religious" heights. One beatnik got 
the woman he was living with so involved in drugs and self-analysis and 
all-night sessions of sex that she was beginning to crack up. What 
obsessions had she picked up during these long nights of talk? Sex 
as the creative principle of the universe, the secret of primitive religion, 
the life of myth. Everything in the final analysis reduced itself 
to sexual symbolism. In his chapter on "The Loveways of the 
Beat Generation", Lipton spares the reader none of the sordid details. 
No one asks questions about the free union of the sexes in West 
Venice so long as the partners share the negative attitudes of the 
group.   The women who come to West Venice, having forsaken radicalism, 
are interested in living only for the moment, in being constantly 
on the move. Others who are attracted to this Mecca of the beat 
generation are homosexuals, heroin addicts, and smalltime hoodlums. 
Those who are sexual deviants are naturally drawn to join the beatniks. 
Since the homosexuals widely use marijuana, they do not have to be 
initiated. Part of the ritual of sex is the use of marijuana. As Lipton 
puts it: "The Eros is felt in the magic circle of marijuana 
with far greater force, as a unifying principle in human relationships, 
than at any other time except, perhaps, in the mutual metaphysical 
orgasms. The magic circle is, in fact, a symbol of and preparation for 
the metaphysical orgasm". Under the influence of marijuana the beatnik 
comes alive within and experiences a wonderfully enhanced sense 
of self as if he had discovered the open sesame to the universe of being. 
Carried high on this "charge", he composes "magical" poetry 
that captures the organic rhythms of life in words. If he thus achieves 
a lyrical, dreamlike, drugged intensity, he pays the price for his 
indulgence by producing work- Allen Ginsberg's "Howl" is 
a striking example of this tendency- that is disoriented, Dionysian 
but without depth and without Apollonian control. For drugs are in 
themselves no royal road to creativity. How is the beat poet to achieve 
unity of form when he is at the same time engaged in a systematic 
derangement of senses.   If love reflects the nature of man, as 
Ortega y Gasset believes, if the person in love betrays decisively what 
he is by his behavior in love, then the writers of the beat generation 
are creating a new literary genre. 
_@_ There were fences in the old days when we were children. Across 
the front of a yard and down the side, they were iron, either spiked 
along the top or arched in half circles. Alley fences were made 
of solid boards higher than one's head, but not so high as the golden 
glow in a corner or the hollyhocks that grew in a line against them. 
Side fences were hidden beneath lilacs and hundred-leaf roses; front 
fences were covered with Virginia creeper or trumpet vines or honeysuckle. 
Square corner- and gate posts were an open-work pattern of 
cast-iron foliage; they were topped by steeples complete in every detail: 
high-pitched roof, pinnacle, and narrow gable. On these posts 
the gates swung open with a squeak and shut with a metallic clang.

The only extended view possible to anyone less tall than the fences 
was that obtained from an upper bough of the apple tree. The primary 
quality of that view seems, now, to have been its quietness, but that 
cannot at the time have impressed us. What one actually remembers 
is its greenness. From high in the tree, the whole block lay within 
range of the eye, but the ground was almost nowhere visible. One looked 
down on a sea of leaves, a breaking wave of flower. Every path from 
back door to barn was covered by a grape-arbor, and every yard had its 
fruit trees. In the center of any open space remaining our grandfathers 
had planted syringa and sweet-shrub, snowball, rose-of-Sharon and 
balm-of-Gilead. From above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse 
of life on the floor of this green sea: a neighbor's gingham 
skirt flashing into sight for an instant on the path beneath her grape-arbor, 
or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter 
of garments hung there, half-way down the block.   That was one 
epoch: the apple-tree epoch. Another had ended before it began. Time 
is a queer thing and memory a queerer; the tricks that time plays 
with memory and memory with time are queerest of all. From maturity 
one looks back at the succession of years, counts them and makes them 
many, yet cannot feel <length> in the number, however large. In a 
stream that turns a mill-wheel there is a lot of water; the mill-pond 
is quiet, its surface dark and shadowed, and there does not seem to 
be much water in it. Time in the sum is nothing. And yet- a year to 
a child is an eternity, and in the memory that phase of one's being- 
a certain mental landscape- will seem to have endured without beginning 
and without end. The part of the mind that preserves dates and 
events may remonstrate, "It could have been like that for only a 
little while"; but true memory does not count nor add: it holds 
fast to things that were and they are outside of time.   Once, 
then- for how many years or how few does not matter- my world was 
bound round by fences, when I was too small to reach the apple tree bough, 
to twist my knee over it and pull myself up. That world was in 
scale with my own smallness. I have no picture in my mind of the garden 
as a whole- that I could not see- but certain aspects of certain 
corners linger in the memory: wind-blown, frost-bitten, white chrysanthemums 
beneath a window, with their brittle brown leaves and their 
sharp scent of November; ripe pears lying in long grass, to be turned 
over by a dusty-slippered foot, cautiously, lest bees still worked 
in the ragged, brown-edged holes; hot-colored verbenas in the corner 
between the dining-room wall and the side porch, where we passed on 
our way to the pump with the half-gourd tied to it as a cup by my grandmother 
for our childish pleasure in drinking from it.   It was 
mother who planted the verbenas. I think that my grandmother was not 
an impassioned gardener: she was too indulgent a lover of dogs and 
grandchildren. My great-grandmother, I have been told, made her garden 
her great pride; she cherished rare and delicate plants like oleanders 
in tubs and wall-flowers and lemon verbenas in pots that had to 
be wintered in the cellar; she filled the waste spots of the yard with 
common things like the garden heliotrope in a corner by the woodshed, 
and the plantain lilies along the west side of the house. These my 
grandmother left in their places (they are still there, more persistent 
and longer-lived than the generations of man) and planted others like 
them, that flourished without careful tending. Three of these only 
were protected from us by stern commandment: the roses, whose petals 
might not be collected until they had fallen, to be made into perfume 
or rose-tea to drink; the peonies, whose tight sticky buds would 
be blighted by the laying on of a finger, although they were not apparently 
harmed by the ants that crawled over them; and the poppies. I 
have more than once sat cross-legged in the grass through a long summer 
morning and watched without touching while a poppy bud higher than 
my head slowly but visibly pushed off its cap, unfolded, and shook out 
like a banner in the sun its flaming vermilion petals. Other flowers 
we might gather as we pleased: myrtle and white violets from beneath 
the lilacs; the lilacs themselves, that bloomed so prodigally but 
for the most part beyond our reach; snowballs; hollyhock blossoms 
that, 
turned upside down, make pink-petticoated ladies; and the little, 
dark blue larkspur that scattered its seed everywhere.   More 
potent a charm to bring back that time of life than this record of a 
few pictures and a few remembered facts would be a catalogue of the minutiae 
which are of the very stuff of the mind, intrinsic, because they 
were known in the beginning not by the eye alone but by the hand that 
held them. Flowers, stones, and small creatures, living and dead. Pale 
yellow snapdragons that by pinching could be made to bite; seed-pods 
of the balsams that snapped like fire-crackers at a touch; red-and-yellow 
columbines whose round-tipped spurs were picked off and 
eaten 
for the honey in them; morning-glory buds which could be so grasped 
and squeezed that they burst like a blown-up paper bag; bright flowers 
from the trumpet vine that made "gloves" on the ends of ten 
waggling fingers. Fuzzy caterpillars, snails with their sensitive horns, 
struggling grasshoppers held by their long hind legs and commanded 
to "spit tobacco, spit". Dead fledgling birds, their squashed-looking 
nakedness and the odor of decay that clung to the hand when they 
had been buried in our graveyard in front of the purple flags. And 
the 
cast shell of a locust, straw-colored and transparent, weighing nothing, 
fragile but entire, with eyes like bubbles and a gaping slit down 
its back. Every morning early, in the summer, we searched the trunks 
of the trees as high as we could reach for the locust shells, carefully 
detached their hooked claws from the bark where they hung, and stabled 
them, a weird faery herd, in an angle between the high roots of the 
tulip tree, where no grass grew in the dense shade **h. We collected 
"lucky stones"- all the creamy translucent pebbles, worn smooth 
and round, that we could find in the driveway. When these had been 
pocketed, we could still spend a morning cracking open other pebbles 
for our delight in seeing how much prettier they were inside than their 
dull exteriors indicated. We showed them to each other and said "Would 
you have guessed **h"? Squatting on our haunches beside the 
flat stone we broke them on, we were safe behind the high closed gates 
at the end of the drive: safe from interruption and the observation 
and possible amusement of the passers-by. Thus shielded, we played 
many foolish games in comfortable unselfconsciousness; even when the 
fences became a part of the game- when a vine-embowered gate-post 
was the Sleeping Beauty's enchanted castle, or when Rapunzel let 
down her golden hair from beneath the crocketed spire, even then we paid 
little heed to those who went by on the path outside.   We enjoyed 
a paradoxical freedom when we were still too young for school. In 
the heat of the summer, the garden solitudes were ours alone; our 
elders stayed in the dark house or sat fanning on the front porch. They 
never troubled themselves about us while we were playing, because 
the fence formed such a definite boundary and "Don't go outside 
the gate" was a command so impossible of misinterpretation. We were 
not, however, entirely unacquainted with the varying aspects of the street. 
We were forbidden to swing on the gates, lest they sag on their 
hinges in a poor-white-trash way, but we could stand on them, when they 
were latched, rest our chins on the top, and stare and stare, committing 
to memory, quite unintentionally, all the details that lay before 
our eyes.   The street that is full now of traffic and parked 
cars then and for many years drowsed on an August afternoon in the shade 
of the curbside trees, and silence was a weight, almost palpable, 
in the air. Every slight sound that rose against that pressure fell 
away again, crushed beneath it. A hay-wagon moved slowly along the gutter, 
the top of it swept by the low boughs of the maple trees, and loose 
straws were left hanging tangled among the leaves. A wheel squeaked 
on a hub, was still, and squeaked again. If a child watched its progress 
he whispered, "Hay, hay, load of hay- make a wish and turn 
away", and then stared rigidly in the opposite direction until the 
sound of the horses' feet returned no more. When the hay wagon had 
gone, and an interval passed, a huckster's cart might turn the corner. 
The horse walked, the reins were slack, the huckster rode with bowed 
shoulders, his forearms across his knees. Sleepily, as if half-reluctant 
to break the silence, he lifted his voice: "Rhu-beb-ni-ice 
fresh rhu-<beb> today"! The lazy sing-song was spaced in time 
like the drone of a bumble-bee. No one seemed to hear him, no one heeded. 
The horse plodded on, and he repeated his call. It became so monotonous 
as to seem a part of the quietness. After his passage, the street 
was empty again. The sun moved slant-wise across the sky and down; 
the trees' shadows circled from street to sidewalk, from sidewalk 
to lawn. At four-o'clock, or four-thirty, the coming of the newsboy 
marked the end of the day; he tossed a paper toward every front 
door, and housewives came down to their steps to pick them up and read 
what their neighbors had been doing.   The streets of any county 
town were like this on any sunshiny afternoon in summer; they were 
like this fifty-odd years ago, and yesterday. But the fences were still 
in place fifty-odd years ago, and when we stood on the gate to look 
over, the sidewalk under our eyes was not cement but two rows of paving 
stones with grass between and on both sides. The curb was a line 
of stone laid edgewise in the dirt and tilted this way and that by frost 
in the ground or the roots of trees. Opposite every gate was a hitching 
post or a stone carriage-step, set with a rusty iron ring for tying 
a horse. The street was unpaved and rose steeply toward the center; 
it was mud in wet weather and dust, ankle-deep, in dry, and could 
be crossed only at the corner where there were stepping stones. It had 
a bucolic atmosphere that it has lost long since. The hoofmarks of 
cattle and the prints of bare feet in the mud or in the dust were as 
numerous as the traces of shod horses. Cows were kept in backyard barns, 
boys were hired to drive them to and from the pasture on the edge 
of town, and familiar to the ear, morning and evening, were the boys' 
coaxing voices, the thud of hooves, and the thwack of a stick on cowhide.

It is worth dwelling in some detail on the crisis of this story, 
because it brings together a number of characteristic elements and 
makes of them a curious, riddling compound obscurely but centrally significant 
for Mann's work.   The wife, Amra, and her lover are 
both savagely portrayed, she as incarnate sensuality, "voluptuous" 
and "indolent", possibly "a mischief maker", with "a kind 
of luxurious cunning" to set against her apparent simplicity, her "birdlike 
brain". La^utner, for his part, "belonged to the present-day 
race of small artists, who do not demand the utmost of themselves", 
and the bitter description of the type includes such epithets 
as "wretched little poseurs", the devastating indictment "they 
do not know how to be wretched decently and in order", and the somewhat 
extreme prophecy, so far not fulfilled: "They will be destroyed".

The trick these two play upon Jacoby reveals their want 
not simply of decency but of imagination as well. His appearance as 
Lizzy evokes not amusement but horror in the audience; it is a spectacle 
absolutely painful, an epiphany of the suffering flesh unredeemed 
by spirit, untouched by any spirit other than abasement and humiliation. 
At the same time the multiple transvestitism involved- the fat 
man as girl and as baby, as coquette pretending to be a baby- touches 
for a moment horrifyingly upon the secret sources of a life like Jacoby's, 
upon the sinister dreams which form the sources of any human 
life.   The music which La^utner has composed for this episode 
is for the most part "rather pretty and perfectly banal". But 
it is characteristic of him, we are told, "his little artifice", 
to be able to introduce "into a fairly vulgar and humorous piece of 
hackwork a sudden phrase of genuine creative art". And this occurs 
now, at the refrain of Jacoby's song- at the point, in fact, of 
the name "Lizzy"-; a modulation described as "almost a stroke 
of genius". "A miracle, a revelation, it was like a curtain suddenly 
torn away to reveal something nude". It is this modulation 
which reveals to Jacoby his own frightful abjection and, simultaneously, 
his wife's infidelity. By the same means he perceives this fact 
as having communicated itself to the audience; he collapses, and dies.

In the work of every artist, I suppose, there may be found 
one or more moments which strike the student as absolutely decisive, 
ultimately emblematic of what it is all about; not less strikingly 
so for being mysterious, as though some deeply hidden constatation of 
thoughts were enciphered in a single image, a single moment. So here. 
The horrifying humor, the specifically sexual embarrassment of the joke 
gone wrong, the monstrous image of the fat man dressed up as a whore 
dressing up as a baby; the epiphany of that quivering flesh; the 
bringing together around it of the secret liaison between indolent, 
mindless sensuality and sharp, shrewd talent, cleverness with an occasional 
touch of genius (which, however, does not know "how to attack 
the problem of suffering"); the miraculous way in which music, revelation 
and death are associated in a single instant- all this seems 
a triumph of art, a rather desperate art, in itself; beyond itself, 
also, 
it evokes numerous and distant resonances from the entire body of Mann's 
work.   When I try to work out my reasons for feeling that 
this passage is of critical significance, I come up with the following 
ideas, which I shall express very briefly here and revert to in 
a later essay.   Love is the crucial dilemma of experience for Mann's 
heroes. The dramatic construction of his stories characteristically 
turns on a situation in which someone is simultaneously compelled 
and forbidden to love. The release, the freedom, involved in loving 
another is either terribly difficult or else absolutely impossible; 
and the motion toward it brings disaster.   This prohibition 
on love has an especially poignant relation to art; it is particularly 
the artist (Tonio Kro^ger, Aschenbach, Leverku^hn) who suffers 
from it. The specific analogy to the dilemma of love is the problem 
of the "breakthrough" in the realm of art.   Again, the sufferings 
and disasters produced by any transgression against the commandment 
not to love are almost invariably associated in one way or another 
with childhood, with the figure of a child.   Finally, the 
theatrical (and perversely erotic) notions of dressing up, cosmetics, 
disguise, and especially change of costume (or singularity of costume, 
as with Cipolla), are characteristically associated with the catastrophes 
of Mann's stories.   We shall return to these statements 
and deal with them more fully as the evidence for them accumulates. 
For the present it is enough to note that in the grotesque figure of 
Jacoby, at the moment of his collapse, all these elements come together 
in prophetic parody. Professionally a lawyer, that is to say associated 
with dignity, reserve, discipline, with much that is essentially 
middle-class, he is compelled by an impossible love to exhibit himself 
dressed up, disguised- that is, paradoxically, revealed- as a 
child, and, worse, as a whore masquerading as a child. That this abandonment 
takes place on a stage, during an 'artistic' performance, 
is enough to associate Jacoby with art, and to bring down upon him the 
punishment for art; that is, he is suspect, guilty, punishable, as 
is anyone in Mann's stories who produces <illusion>, and this is 
true even though the constant elements of the artist-nature, technique, 
magic, guilt and suffering, are divided in this story between Jacoby 
and La^utner.   It appears that the dominant tendency of 
Mann's early tales, however pictorial or even picturesque the surface, 
is already toward the symbolic, the emblematic, the expressionistic. 
In a certain perfectly definite way, the method and the theme of his 
stories are one and the same.   Something of this can be learned 
from "The Way to the Churchyard" (1901), an anecdote about 
an old failure whose fit of anger at a passing cyclist causes him to die 
of a stroke or seizure. There is no more "plot" than that; only 
slightly more, perhaps, than a newspaper account of such an incident 
would give. The artistic interest, then, lies in what the encounter 
may be made to represent, in the power of some central significance 
to draw the details into relevance and meaningfulness.   The first 
sentence, with its platitudinous irony, announces an emblematic intent: 
"The way to the churchyard ran along beside the highroad, ran 
beside it all the way to the end; that is to say, to the churchyard". 
And the action is consistently presented with regard for this distinction. 
The highroad, one might say at first, belongs to life, while 
the way to the churchyard belongs to death. But that is too simple, 
and won't hold up. As the first sentence suggests, both roads belong 
to death in the end. But the highroad, according to the description 
of its traffic, belongs to life as it is lived in unawareness of death, 
while the way to the churchyard belongs to some other sort of life: 
a suffering form, an existence wholly comprised in the awareness 
of death. Thus, on the highroad, a troop of soldiers "marched in their 
own dust and sang", while on the footpath one man walks alone.

This man's isolation is not merely momentary, it is permanent. 
He is a widower, his three children are dead, he has no one left on 
earth; also he is a drunk, and has lost his job on that account. His 
name is Praisegod Piepsam, and he is rather fully described as to 
his clothing and physiognomy in a way which relates him to a sinister 
type in the author's repertory- he is a forerunner of those enigmatic 
strangers in "Death in Venice", for example, who represent 
some combination of cadaver, exotic, and psychopomp.   This strange 
person quarrels with a cyclist because the latter is using the path 
rather than the highroad. The cyclist, a sufficiently commonplace 
young fellow, is not named but identified simply as "Life"- that 
and a license number, which Piepsam uses in addressing him. "Life" 
points out that "everybody uses this path", and starts to ride 
on. Piepsam tries to stop him by force, receives a push in the chest 
from "Life", and is left standing in impotent and growing rage, 
while a crowd begins to gather. His rage assumes a religious form; 
that is, on the basis of his own sinfulness and abject wretchedness, 
Piepsam becomes a prophet who in his ecstasy and in the name of God 
imprecates doom on Life- not only the cyclist now, but the audience, 
the world, as well: "all you light-headed breed". This passion 
brings on a fit which proves fatal. Then an ambulance comes along, 
and they drive Praisegod Piepsam away.   This is simple enough, 
but several more points of interest may be mentioned as relevant. The 
season, between spring and summer, belongs to life in its carefree 
aspect. Piepsam's fatal rage arises not only because <he> cannot 
stop the cyclist, but also because God will not stop him; as Piepsam 
says to the crowd in his last moments: "His justice is not of 
this world".   Life is further characterized, in antithesis to 
Piepsam, as animal: the image of a dog, which appears at several 
places, is first given as the criterion of amiable, irrelevant interest 
aroused by life considered simply as a spectacle: a dog in a wagon 
is "admirable", "a pleasure to contemplate"; another wagon 
has no dog, and therefore is "devoid of interest". Piepsam calls 
the cyclist "cur" and "puppy" among other things, and at the crisis 
of his fit a little fox-terrier stands before him and howls into 
his face. The ambulance is drawn by two "charming" little horses.

Piepsam is not, certainly, religious in any conventional sense. 
His religiousness is intimately, or dialectically, connected with 
his sinfulness; the two may in fact be identical. His unsuccessful 
strivings to give up drink are represented as religious strivings; 
he keeps a bottle in a wardrobe at home, and "before this wardrobe Praisegod 
Piepsam had before now gone literally on his knees, and in 
his wrestlings had bitten his tongue- and still in the end capitulated".

The cyclist, by contrast, blond and blue-eyed, is simply 
unreflective, unproblematic Life, "blithe and carefree". "He 
made no claims to belong to the great and mighty of this earth".

Piepsam is grotesque, a disturbing parody; his end is ridiculous 
and trivial. He is "a man raving mad on the way to the churchyard". 
But he is more interesting than the others, the ones who come from 
the highroad to watch him, more interesting than Life considered 
as a cyclist. And if I have gone into so much detail about so small 
a work, that is because it is also so typical a work, representing the 
germinal form of a conflict which remains essential in Mann's writing: 
the crude sketch of Piepsam contains, in its critical, destructive 
and self-destructive tendencies, much that is enlarged and illuminated 
in the figures of, for instance, Naphta and Leverku^hn.

In method as well as in theme this little anecdote with its details 
selected as much for expressiveness and allegory as for "realism", 
anticipates a kind of musical composition, as well as a kind of fictional 
composition, in which, as Leverku^hn says, "there shall be 
nothing unthematic". It resembles, too, pictures such as Du^rer 
and Bruegel did, in which all that looks at first to be solely pictorial 
proves on inspection to be also literary, the representation of a 
proverb, for example, or a deadly sin.   "Gladius Dei" (1902) 
resembles "The Way to the Churchyard" in its representation 
of a conflict between light and dark, between "Life" and a spirit 
of criticism, negation, melancholy, but it goes considerably further 
in characterizing the elements of this conflict.   The monk Savonarola, 
brought over from the Renaissance and placed against the background 
of Munich at the turn of the century, protests against the luxurious 
works displayed in the art-shop of M& Bluthenzweig; in 
particular against a Madonna portrayed in a voluptuous style and modeled, 
according to gossip, upon the painter's mistress. Hieronymus, 
like Piepsam, makes his protest quite in vain, and his rejection, though 
not fatal, is ridiculous and humiliating; he is simply thrown out 
of the shop by the porter. On the street outside, Hieronymus envisions 
a holocaust of the vanities of this world, such a burning of artistic 
and erotic productions as his namesake actually brought to pass in 
Florence, and prophetically he issues his curse: "<Gladius Dei 
super terram cito et velociter>". 
The "reality" to which they respond is rationally empty and their 
art is an imitation of the inescapable powerfulness of this unknown and 
empty world. Their artistic rationale is given to the witness of unreason.

These polar concerns (imitation vs& formalism) reflect 
a philosophical and religious situation which has been developing 
over a long period of time. The breakdown of classical structures of 
meaning in all realms of western culture has given rise to several generations 
of artists who have documented the disintegrative processes. 
Thus the image of man has suffered complete fragmentation in personal 
and spiritual qualities, and complete objectification in sub-human and 
quasi-mechanistic powers. The image of the world tends to reflect the 
hostility and indifference of man or else to dissolve into empty spaces 
and overwhelming mystery. The image of God has simply disappeared. 
All such imitations of negative quality have given rise to a compensatory 
response in the form of a heroic and highly individualistic humanism: 
if man can neither know nor love reality as it is, he can at 
least invent an artistic "reality" which is its own world and which 
can speak to man of purely personal and subjective qualities capable 
of being known and worthy of being loved. The person of the artist 
becomes a final bastion of meaning in a world rendered meaningless by 
the march of events and the decay of classical religious and philosophical 
systems.   Whatever pole of this contrast one emphasizes and 
whatever the tension between these two approaches to understanding 
the artistic imagination, it will be readily seen that they are not mutually 
exclusive, that they belong together. Without the decay of a 
sense of objective reference (except as the imitation of mystery), the 
stress on subjective invention would never have been stimulated into 
being. And although these insights into the nature of art may be in themselves 
insufficient for a thoroughgoing philosophy of art, their peculiar 
authenticity in this day and age requires that they be taken seriously 
and gives promise that from their very substance, new and valid 
chapters in the philosophy of art may be written. For better or worse 
we cannot regard "imitation" in the arts in the simple mode of 
classical rationalism or detached realism. A broader concept of imitation 
is needed, one which acknowledges that true invention is important, 
that the artist's creativity in part transcends the non-artistic 
causal factors out of which it arises. On the other hand, we cannot regard 
artistic invention as pure, uncaused, and unrelated to the times 
in which it occurs. We need a doctrine of imitation to save us from 
the solipsism and futility of pure formalism. Accordingly, it is the 
aim of this essay to advance a new theory of imitation (which I shall 
call <mimesis> in order to distinguish it from earlier theories of 
imitation) and a new theory of invention (which I shall call <symbol> 
for reasons to be stated hereafter). 

#THE MIMETIC IMAGINATION IN 
THE ARTS#

The word "mimesis" ("imitation") is usually associated 
with Plato and Aristotle. For Plato, "imitation" is twice 
removed from reality, being a poor copy of physical appearance, which 
in itself is a poor copy of ideal essence. All artistic and mythological 
representations, therefore, are "imitations of imitations" and 
are completely superseded by the truth value of "dialectic", the 
proper use of the inquiring intellect. In Plato's judgment, the 
arts play a meaningful role in society only in the education of the young, 
prior to the full development of their intellectual powers. Presupposed 
in Plato's system is a doctrine of levels of insight, in which 
a certain kind of detached understanding is alone capable of penetrating 
to the most sublime wisdom. Aristotle also tended to stratify all 
aspects of human nature and activity into levels of excellence and, 
like Plato, he put the pure and unimpassioned intellect on the top level. 
The <Poetics>, in affirming that all human arts are "modes 
of imitation", gives a more serious role to artistic mimesis than 
did Plato. But Aristotle kept the principle of levels and even augmented 
it by describing in the <Poetics> what kinds of character and 
action must be imitated if the play is to be a vehicle of serious and 
important human truths. For both Plato and Aristotle artistic mimesis, 
in contrast to the power of dialectic, is relatively incapable of 
expressing the character of fundamental reality.   The central 
concern of Erich Auerbach's impressive volume called <Mimesis> 
is to describe the shift from a classic theory of imitation (based upon 
a recognition of levels of truth) to a Christian theory of imitation 
in which the levels are dissolved. Following the theme of Incarnation 
in the Gospels, the Christian artist and critic sees in the most 
commonplace and ordinary events "figures" of divine power and reality. 
Here artistic realism involves the audience in an impassioned participation 
in events whose overtones and implications are transcendent. 
Artistic mimesis under Christian influence records the involvement 
of all persons, however humble, in a divine drama. The artist, unlike 
the philosopher, is not a removed observer aiming at neutral and rarified 
high levels of abstraction. He is the conveyor of a sacred reality 
by which he has been grasped. I have chosen to use the word "mimesis" 
in its Christian rather than its classic implications and 
to discover in the concrete forms of both art and myth powers of theological 
expression which, as in the Christian mind, are the direct consequence 
of involvement in historical experience, which are not reserved, 
as in the Greek mind, only to moments of theoretical reflection.

In the first instance, "mimesis" is here used to mean the 
recalling of experience in terms of vivid images rather than in terms 
of abstract ideas or conventional designations. By "image" is meant 
not only a visual presentation, but also remembered sensations of any 
of the five senses plus the feelings which are immediately conjoined 
therewith. This is the primary function of the imagination operating 
in the absence of the original experiential stimulus by which the images 
were first appropriated. Mimesis is the nearest possible thing to 
the actual re-living of experience, in which the imagining person recovers 
through images something of the force and depth characteristic 
of experience itself. The images themselves, like their counterparts 
in experience, are not neutral qualities to be surveyed dispassionately; 
they are fields of force exerting a unique influence on the sensibilities 
and a unique relatedness to one another. They bring an inextricable 
component of value within themselves, with attractions and repulsions 
native to their own quality. As in experience one is seized by 
given entities and their interrelations and is forced to respond in 
value feelings to them, so one is similarly seized in the mimetic presentation 
of images. Mimesis here is not to be confused with literalism 
or realism in the conventional sense. A word taken in its dictionary 
meaning, a photographic image of a recognizable object, the mere picturing 
of a "scene" tends to lose experiential vividness and to connote 
such conventional abstractions as to invite neutral reception without 
the incitement of value feelings. Similarly experience itself can 
be conventionalized so that people react to certain preconceived clues 
for behavior without awareness of the vitality of their experiential 
field. A truly vivid imagination moves beyond the conventional recollection 
to a sense of immediacy.   The mimetic character of the 
imaginative consciousness tends to express itself in the presentation 
of artistic forms and materials. When words can be used in a more fresh 
and primitive way so that they strike with the force of sights and 
sounds, when tones of sound and colors of paint and the carven shape 
all strike the sensibilities with an undeniable force of data in and of 
themselves, compelling the observer into an attitude of attention, all 
this imitates the way experience itself in its deepest character strikes 
upon the door of consciousness and clamors for entrance. These 
are like the initial ways in which the world forces itself upon the self 
and thrusts the self into decision and choice. The presence of genuine 
mimesis in art is marked by the persistence with which the work 
demands attention and compels valuation even though it is but vaguely 
understood.   Underlying these conceptions of mimesis are certain 
presuppositions concerning the nature of primary human experience which 
require some exposition before the main argument can proceed. Experience 
is not seen, as it is in classical rationalism, as presenting 
us initially with clear and distinct objects simply located in space 
and 
registering their character, movements, and changes on the <tabula 
rasa> of an uninvolved intellect. Neither is primary experience understood 
according to the attitude of modern empiricism in which nothing 
is thought to be received other than signals of sensory qualities producing 
their responses in the appropriate sense organs. Primary feelings 
of the world come neither as a collection of clearly known objects 
(houses, trees, implements, etc&) nor a collection of isolated and 
neutral sensory qualities. In contrast to all this, primary data are 
data of a self involved in environing processes and powers.   The 
most primitive feelings are rudimentary value feelings, both positive 
and negative: a desire to appropriate this or that part of the environment 
into oneself; a desire to avoid and repel this or that other 
part. These desires presuppose a sense of causally efficacious powers 
in which one is involved, some working for one's good, others threatening 
ill. Gone is the <tabula rasa> of the mind. In its place 
is a passionate consciousness grasped and molded to feelings of positive 
or negative values even as the actions of one's life are determined 
by constellations of process in which one is caught.   The principal 
defender of this view of primary experience as "causal efficacy" 
is Alfred North Whitehead. Our most elemental and unavoidable 
impressions, he says, are those of being involved in a large arena of 
powers which have a longer past than our own, which are interrelated 
in a vast movement through the present toward the future. We feel the 
quality of these powers initially as in some degree wholesome or threatening. 
Later abstractive and rational processes may indicate errors 
of judgment in these apprehensions of value, but the apprehensions themselves 
are the primary stuff of experience. It takes a great deal 
of abstraction to free oneself from the primitive impression of larger 
unities of power and influence and to view one's world simply as a 
collection of sense data arranged in such and such sequence and pattern, 
devoid of all power to move the feelings and actions except in so far 
as they present themselves for inspection. Whitehead is here questioning 
David Hume's understanding of the nature of experience; he 
is questioning, also, every epistemology which stems from Hume's 
presupposition 
that experience is merely sense data in abstraction from 
causal efficacy, and that causal efficacy is something intellectually 
imputed to the world, not directly perceived. What Hume calls "sensation" 
is what Whitehead calls "perception in the mode of presentational 
immediacy" which is a sophisticated abstraction from perception 
in the mode of causal efficacy. As long as perception is seen as 
composed only of isolated sense data, most of the quality and interconnectedness 
of existence loses its objectivity, becomes an invention 
of consciousness, and the result is a philosophical scepticism. Whitehead 
contends that the human way of understanding existence as a unity 
of interlocking and interdependent processes which constitute each other 
and which cause each other to be and not to be is possible only because 
the basic form of such an understanding, for all its vagueness and 
tendency to mistake the detail, is initially <given> in the way man 
feels the world. In this respect experience is broader and full of 
a richer variety of potential meanings than the mind of man or any of 
his arts or culture are capable of making clear and distinct. 
A chief characteristic of experience in the mode of causal efficacy is 
one of derivation from the past. Both I and my feelings come up out 
of a chain of events that fan out into the past into sources that are 
ultimately very unlike the entity which I now am. 
After only eighteen years of non-interference, there were already indications 
of melioration, though "in a slight degree", to be sure.

There were more indications by the mid-twentieth century. I leave 
it to the statisticians to say what they were, but I noticed several 
a few years ago, during an automobile ride from Memphis to Hattiesburg. 
In town after town my companion pointed out the Negro school 
and the White school, and in every instance the former made a better 
appearance (it was newer, for one thing). It really looked as if a 
change of the sort predicted by Booker T& Washington had been going 
on. But with the renewal of interference in 1954 (as with its beginning 
in 1835), the improvement was impaired.   For over a hundred 
years Southerners have felt that the North was picking on them. 
It's infuriating, this feeling that one is being picked on, continually, 
constantly. By what right of superior virtue, Southerners ask, 
do the people of the North do this? The traditional strategy of the 
South has been to expose the vices of the North, to demonstrate that 
the North possessed no superior virtue, to "show the world that" 
(as James's Christopher Newman said to <his> adversaries) "however 
bad I may be, you're not quite the people to say it".

In the pre-Civil War years, the South argued that the slave was 
not less humanely treated than the factory worker of the North. At 
the present time, the counter-attack takes the line that there's no 
more of the true <spirit> of "integration" in the North than 
in the South. The line is a pretty good one.   People talk about 
"the law of the land". The expression has become quite a cliche. 
But people can't be made to integrate, socialize (the two are inseparable 
by Southern standards) by law.   I was having lunch not 
long ago (apologies to N& V& Peale) with three distinguished 
historians (one specializing in the European Middle Ages, one in American 
history, and one in the Far East), and I asked them if they 
could name instances where the general mores had been radically changed 
with "deliberate speed, majestic instancy" (Francis Thompson's 
words for the Hound of <Heaven's> pursuit) by judicial fiat. 
They didn't seem to be able to think of any.   A Virginia 
judge a while back cited a Roman jurist to the effect that ten years 
might be a reasonable length of time for such a change. But I suspect 
that the old Roman was referring to change made under military occupation- 
the sort of change which Tacitus was talking about when he 
said, "They make a desert, and call it peace" ("Solitudinem faciunt, 
pacem appellant".).

Moreover, the law of the land is not 
irrevocable; it can be changed; it has been, many times. Mr& 
Justice Taney's Dred Scott decision in 1857 was unpopular in the 
North, and soon became a dead letter. Prohibition was the law of the 
land, but it was unpopular (how many of us oldsters took up drinking 
in prohibition days, drinking was so gay, so fashionable, especially 
in the sophisticated Northeast!) and was repealed. The cliche loses 
its talismanic virtue in the light of a little history.   The 
Declaration of Independence says that "governments derive their 
just powers from the consent of the governed". The phrase "consent 
of the governed" needs a hard look. How do we define it? Is the 
consent of the governed a numerical majority? Calhoun dealt with 
this question in his "Disquisition on Government".   To guard 
against the tyranny of a numerical majority, Calhoun developed his 
theory of "concurrent majority", which, he said, "by giving to 
each portion of the community which may be unequally affected by the 
action of government, a negative on the others, prevents all partial 
or local legislation". Who will say that our country is even now a 
homogeneous community? that regional peculiarities do not still exist? 
that the Court order does not unequally affect the Southern region? 
Who will deny that in a vast portion of the South the Federal 
action is incompatible with the Jeffersonian concept of "the consent 
of the governed"?   Circumstances alter cases. A friend 
of mine in New Mexico said the Court order had caused no particular 
trouble out there, that all had gone as merry as a marriage bell. He 
seemed a little surprised that it should have caused any particular 
trouble anywhere. I murmured something about a possible difference between 
New Mexico's history and Mississippi's.   One can meet 
with aloofness almost anywhere: the Thank-Heaven-We're-not-Involved 
viewpoint, It Doesn't Affect Us! Southern Liberals 
(there are a good many)- especially if they're rich- often exhibit 
blithe insouciance. The trouble here is that it's almost too easy 
to take the high moral ground when it doesn't cost you anything. 
You've already sent your daughter to Miss ~X's select academy 
for girls and your son to Mr& ~Y's select academy for boys, and 
you can be as liberal as you please with strict impunity. If there's 
no suitable academy in your own neighborhood, there's always New 
England. New England academies welcome fugitives from the provinces, 
South as well as West. They may even enroll a colored student 
or two for show, though he usually turns out to be from Thailand, or 
any place other than the American South. It would be interesting to 
know how much "integration" there is in the famous, fashionable colleges 
and prep schools of New England. A recent newspaper report 
said there were five Negroes in the 1960 graduating class of nearly one 
thousand at Yale; that is, about one-half of one per cent, which 
looks pretty "tokenish" to me, especially in an institution which 
professes to be "national".   I must confess that I prefer 
the Liberal who is personally affected, who is willing to send his own 
children to a mixed school as proof of his faith. I leave out of account 
the question of the best interests of the children, the question 
of what their best interests really are. I'm talking about the grand 
manner of the Liberal- North <and> South- who is not affected 
personally. If these people were denied a voice (do they have a 
moral right to a voice?), what voices would be left? Who is involved 
<willy nilly?> Well, after everybody has followed the New England 
pattern of segregating one's children into private schools, 
only the poor folks are left. And it is precisely in this poorer economic 
class that one finds, and has always found, the most racial friction. 
##

A dear, respected friend of mine, who like myself grew up 
in the South and has spent many years in New England, said to me 
not long ago: "I can't forgive New England for rejecting 
all complicity". Being a teacher of American literature, I remembered 
Whittier's "Massachusetts to Virginia", where he said: 
"But that one dark loathsome burden ye must stagger with alone, 
And reap the bitter harvest which ye yourselves have sown". There 
is a legend (Hawthorne records it in his "English Notebooks". and 
one finds it again in Thomas Nelson Page) to the effect that the 
<Mayflower> 
on its second voyage brought a cargo of Negro slaves. Whether 
historically a fact or not, the legend has a certain symbolic value.

<Complicity> is an embarrassing word. It is something 
which most of us try to get out from under. Like the cowboy in Stephen 
Crane's "Blue Hotel", we run around crying, "Well, I 
didn't do anything, did I"? Robert Penn Warren puts it this 
way in "Brother to Dragons": "The recognition of complicity 
is the beginning of innocence", where innocence, I think, means 
about the same thing as redemption. A man must be able to say, "Father, 
I have sinned", 
or there is no hope for him. Lincoln understood 
this better than most when he said in his "Second Inaugural" 
that God "gives to both North and South this terrible war, as the 
woe due to those by whom the offense came". He also spoke of "the 
wealth piled by the bondsman's two hundred and fifty years in unrequited 
toil". Lincoln was historian and economist enough to know that 
a substantial portion of this wealth had accumulated in the hands of 
the descendants of New Englanders engaged in the slave trade. After 
how many generations is such wealth (mounting all the while through 
the manipulations of high finance) purified of taint? It is a question 
which New Englanders long ago put out of their minds. But didn't 
they get off too easy? The slaves never shared in <their> profits, 
while they did share, in a very real sense, in the profits of the 
slave-owners: they were fed, clothed, doctored, and so forth; they 
were the beneficiaries of responsible, paternalistic care. 
Emerson- Platonist, idealist, doctrinaire- sounded a high Transcendental 
note in his "Boston Hymn", delivered in 1863 in the Boston Music 
Hall amidst thundering applause: "Pay ransom to the owner and 
fill the bag to the brim. Who is the owner? The slave is owner, 
And ever was. Pay him"! It is the abstractionism, the unrealism, 
of the pure idealist. It ignores the sordid financial aspects (quite 
conveniently, too, for his audience, who could indulge in moral indignation 
without visible, or even conscious, discomfort, their money 
from the transaction having been put away long ago in a good antiseptic 
brokerage). Like Pilate, they had washed their hands. But can one, 
really? Can God be mocked, ever, in the long run?   New 
Englanders were a bit sensitive on the subject of their complicity in 
Negro slavery at the time of the drafting of the Declaration of Independence, 
as Jefferson explained in his "Autobiography": "

The clause reprobating the enslaving the inhabitants of Africa 
was struck out in complaisance to South Carolina and Georgia, who 
had never attempted to restrain the importation of slaves, and who on 
the contrary still wished to continue it. Our Northern brethren also 
I believe felt a little tender under those censures; for though their 
people had very few slaves themselves, yet they had been pretty considerable 
carriers of them to others".   But that was a long 
time ago. The New England conscience became desensitized. George 
W& Cable (naturalized New Englander), writing in 1889 from "Paradise 
Road, Northampton" (lovely symbolic name), agitated continuously 
the "<Southern> question". It was nice to be able to isolate 
it. ##

New England, as everyone knows, has long been schoolmaster 
to the Nation. There one finds concentrated in a comparatively 
small area the chief universities, colleges, and preparatory schools 
of the United States. Why should this be so? It is true that New 
England, more than any other section, was dedicated to education 
from the start. But I think that something more than this is involved.

How did it happen, for example, that the state university, 
that great symbol of American democracy, failed to flourish in New England 
as it did in other parts of the country? Isn't it a bit odd 
that the three states of Southern New England (Massachusetts, Connecticut, 
and Rhode Island) have had state institutions of university 
status only in the very recent past, these institutions having previously 
been ~A+~M colleges? Was it supposed, perchance, that 
~A+~M (vocational training, that is) was quite sufficient for the 
immigrant class which flooded that part of the New England world in 
the post-Civil War period, the immigrants having been brought in from 
Southern Europe, to work in the mills, to make up for the labor 
shortage caused by migration to the West? Is it not ironical that 
Roger Williams's state, Rhode Island, should have been the very 
last of the forty-eight to establish a state university? The state 
universities of Maine, New Hampshire, And Vermont are older and more 
"respectable"; they had less immigration to contend with.

A Yale historian, writing a few years ago in <The Yale Review>, 
said: "We in New England have long since segregated our children". 
He was referring not only to the general college situation 
but more especially to the preparatory schools. And what a galaxy of 
those adorns that fair land! I don't propose to go into their history, 
but I have one or two surmises. One is that they were established, 
or gained eminence, under pressure provided by these same immigrants, 
from whom the old families wished to segregate their children. 
In the early days of a homogeneous population, the public school was 
quite satisfactory.

AMONG THE RECIPIENTS of the Nobel Prize for Literature 
more than half are practically unknown to readers of English. Of these 
there are surely few that would be more rewarding discoveries than 
Verner von Heidenstam, the Swedish poet and novelist who received 
the award in 1916 and whose centennial was celebrated two years ago. 
Equally a master of prose and verse, he recreates the glory of Sweden 
in the past and continues it into the present. In the following sketch 
we shall present a brief outline of his life and let him as much as 
possible speak for himself.   Heidenstam was born in 1859, of 
a prosperous family. On his father's side he was of German descent, 
on his mother's he came of the old Swedish nobility. The family 
estate was situated near Vadstena on Lake Va^ttern in south central 
Sweden. It is a lonely, rather desolate region, but full of legendary 
and historic associations. As a boy in a local school he was shy 
and solitary, absorbed in his fondness for nature and his visions of 
Sweden's ancient glory. He liked to fancy himself as a chieftain 
and to dress for the part. Being somewhat delicate in health, at the 
age of sixteen he was sent to Southern Europe, for which he at once 
developed a passion, so that he spent nearly all of the following ten 
years abroad, at first in Italy, then in Greece, Egypt, Asia Minor, 
and Palestine. In one of his summers at home he married, to the 
great disapproval of his father, who objected because of his extreme youth.

Deciding to become a painter, he entered the studio of Gerome 
in Paris, where he enjoyed the life of the artists, but soon found 
that whatever talent he might have did not lie in that direction. 
He gives us an account of this in his lively and humorous poem, "The 
Happy Artists". "I scanned the world through printed symbol 
swart, And through the beggar's rags I strove to see The inner man. 
I looked unceasingly With my cold mind and with my burning heart". 
In this final line, we have the key to his nature. Few writers 
have better understood their deepest selves. Heidenstam could never be 
satisfied by surface. It may, however, be noted that his gift for color 
and imagery must have been greatly stimulated by his stay in Paris.

The first result of Heidenstam's long sojourn abroad was 
a volume of poems, <Pilgrimage and Wander-Years (Vallfart och vandringsar),> 
published in 1888. It was a brilliant debut, so much so 
indeed that it aroused a new vitality in the younger poets, as did Byron's 
<Childe Harold>. Professor Fredrik Bo^o^k, Sweden's 
foremost critic of the period, acclaims it as follows: "In 
this we have the verse of a painter; strongly colorful, plastic, racy, 
vivid. In a bold, sometimes careless, form there is nothing academic; 
all is seen and felt and experienced, the observation is sharp 
and the imagination lively. The young poet-painter reproduces the French 
life of the streets; he tells stories of the Thousand and One 
Nights, and conjures up before us the bazaars of Damascus. In the 
care-free indolence of the East he sees the last reflection of the 
old happy existence, and for that reason he loves it. And yet amid all 
the gay hedonism in <Pilgrimage and Wander-Years> is a cycle of 
short poems, "Thoughts in Loneliness", filled with brooding, melancholy, 
and sombre longing".   Of the longer pieces of the volume 
none is so memorable as "Nameless and Immortal", which at 
once took rank among the finest poems ever written in the Swedish language. 
It celebrates the unknown architect who designed the temple of 
Neptune at Paestum, next to the Parthenon the noblest example of Grecian 
classic style now in existence. On the eve of his return to their 
native Naxos he speaks with his wife of the masterpiece which rises 
before them in its completed perfection. The supreme object of their 
lives is now fulfilled, says the wife, her husband has achieved immortality. 
Not so, he answers, it is not the architect but the temple 
that is immortal. "The man's true reputation is his work".

The short poems grouped at the end of the volume as "Thoughts 
in Loneliness" is, as Professor Bo^o^k indicated, in sharp contrast 
with the others. It consists of fragmentary personal revelations, 
such as "The Spark": "There is a spark dwells deep within 
my soul. To get it out into the daylight's glow Is my life's 
aim both first and last, the whole. It slips away, it burns and tortures 
me. That little spark is all the wealth I know, That little spark 
is my life's misery". A dominant motive is the poet's longing 
for his homeland and its boyhood associations: "Not men-folk, but 
the fields where I would stray, The stones where as a child I used 
to play". He is utterly disappointed in himself and in the desultory 
life he has been leading. What he really wants is to find "a 
sacred cause" to which he can honestly devote himself. This restless 
individualism found its answer when he returned to live nearly all 
the rest of his life in Sweden. His cause was to commemorate the glory 
of her past and to incite her people to perpetuate it in the present.

He did not, however, find himself at once. His next major 
work, completed in 1892, was a long fantastic epic in prose, entitled 
<Hans Alienus,> which Professor Bo^o^k describes as a monument 
on the grave of his carefree and indolent youth. The hero, who is 
himself, is represented as a pilgrim in the storied lands of the East, 
a sort of Faustus type, who, to quote from Professor Bo^o^k again, 
"even in the pleasure gardens of Sardanapalus can not cease from 
his painful search after the meaning of life. He is driven back by 
his yearning to the wintry homeland of his fathers in the forest of 
Tiveden".   From this time on Heidenstam proceeded to find his 
deeper self. By the death of his father in 1888 he had come into possession 
of the family estate and had re-assumed its traditions. He 
did not, however, settle back into acquiescence with things as they were. 
Like his friend and contemporary August Strindberg he had little 
patience with collective mediocrity. He saw Sweden as a country of 
smug and narrow provincialism, indifferent to the heroic spirit of its 
former glory. Strindberg's remedy for this condition was to tear 
down the old structures and build anew from the ground up. Heidenstam's 
conception, on the contrary, was to revive the present by the memories 
of the past. ##

Whether in prose or poetry, all of Heidenstam's 
later work was concerned with Sweden. With the first of a group 
of historical novels, <The Charles Men (Karolinerna)>, published 
in 1897-8, he achieved the masterpiece of his career. In scope 
and power it can only be compared to Tolstoy's <War and Peace>. 
About one-third as long, it is less intimate and detailed, but better 
coordinated, more concise and more dramatic. Though it centers around 
the brilliant and enigmatic figure of Charles /12,, the true hero 
is not finally the king himself. Hence the title of the book, referring 
to the soldiers and subjects of the king; on the fatal battlefield 
of Poltava, to quote from the novel, "the wreath he twined for 
himself slipped down upon his people".   <The Charles Men> 
consists not of a connected narrative but of a group of short stories, 
each depicting a special phase of the general subject. Somewhat uneven 
in interest for an average reader, eight or ten of these are among 
the finest of their kind in literature. They comprise a great variety 
of scene and interest: grim episodes of war, idyllic interludes, superb 
canvases of world-shaking events, and delightfully humorous sketches 
of odd characters. The general effect is tragic. Almost nothing 
is said of Charles' spectacular victories, the central theme being 
the heroic loyalty of the Swedish people to their idolized king in misfortune 
and defeat.   To carry out this exalted conception the 
author has combined the vivid realism and imaginative power we have noticed 
in his early poetry and carried them out on a grand scale. His 
peculiar gift, as had been suggested before, is his intensity. George 
Meredith has said that fervor is the core of style. Of few authors 
is this more true than of Heidenstam. <The Charles Men> has a tremendous 
range of characters, of common folk even more than of major 
figures. The career of Charles /12, is obviously very similar to that 
of Napoleon. His ideal was Alexander of Macedon, as Napoleon's 
was Julius Caesar. His purpose, however, was not to establish an 
empire, but to assert the principle of divine justice. Each aspired 
to be a god in human form, but with each it was a different kind of god. 
Each failed catastrophically in an invasion of Russia and each brought 
ruin on the country that worshipped him. Each is still glorified 
as a national hero.   The first half of <The Charles Men,> 
ending on the climax of the battle of Poltava in 1709, is more dramatically 
coherent than the second. After the collapse of that desperate 
and ill-fated campaign the character of the king degenerated for a 
time into a futility that was not merely pitiable but often ridiculous. 
Like Napoleon, he was the worst of losers. There are, however, some 
wonderful chapters at the beginning of the second part, concerning 
the reactions of the Swedes in adversity. Then more than ever before 
did they show their fortitude and patient cheerfulness. This comes 
out in "When the Bells Ring", which describes the rallying of the 
peasants in southern Sweden to repel an invasion by the Danes.

In "The King's Ride", Charles breaks out of a long period 
of petulance and inertia, regains his old self, escapes from Turkey, 
and finally reaches his own land after an absence of eighteen years. 
He finds it in utter misery and desolation. All his people ask for 
is no more war. But he plunges into yet another, this time with Norway, 
and is killed in an assault on the fortress of Fredrikshall, being 
only thirty-six years of age when he died. He had become king at fifteen.

Then suddenly there was a tremendous revulsion of popular 
feeling. From being a hated tyrant and madman he was now the symbol 
of all that was noblest and best in the history of Sweden. This is 
brought out in the next to last chapter of the book, "A Hero's 
Funeral", written in the form of an impassioned prose poem. Slowly 
the procession of warriors and statesmen passes through the snow beside 
the black water and into the brilliantly lighted cathedral, the shrine 
of so many precious memories. The guns are fired, the hymns are 
sung, and the body of Charles is carried down to the vault and laid beside 
the tombs of his ancestors. As he had longed to be, he became the 
echo of a saga.   Heidenstam wrote four other works of fiction 
about earlier figures revered in Swedish memory. Excellent in their 
way, they lack the wide appeal of <The Charles Men>, and need 
not detain us here. It is different with his volume <The Swedes 
and Their Chieftains (Svenskarna och deras ho^vdingar),> a history 
intended for the general reader and particularly suited for high 
school students. Admirably written, it is a perfect introduction to Swedish 
history for readers of other countries. Some of the earlier episodes 
have touches of the supernatural, as suited to the legendary background. 
These are suggestive of Selma Lagerlo^f. Especially touching 
is the chapter, "The Little Sister", about a king's daughter 
who became a nun in the convent of St& Birgitta. The record 
teems with romance and adventure. Gustaf Vasa is a superb example, 
and Charles /10,, the conqueror of Denmark, hardly less so. Of 
Gustavus Adolphus and Charles /12, it is unnecessary to speak. 
Today the private detective will also investigate insurance claims or 
handle divorce cases, but his primary function remains what it has always 
been, to assist those who have money in their unending struggle with 
those who have not. It is from this unpromising background that the 
fictional private detective was recruited. ##

THE mythological 
private eye differs from his counterpart in real life in two essential 
ways. On the one hand, he does not work for a large agency, but 
is almost always self-employed. As a free-lance investigator, the fictional 
detective is responsible to no one but himself and his client. 
For this reason, he appears as an independent and self-reliant figure, 
whose rugged individualism need not be pressed into the mold of a 
9 to 5 routine. On the other hand, the fictional detective does not 
break strikes or handle divorce cases; no client would ever think of 
asking him to do such things. Whatever his original assignment, the 
fictional private eye ends up by investigating and solving a crime, usually 
a murder. Operating as a one man police force in fact if not in 
name, he is at once more independent and more dedicated than the police 
themselves. He catches criminals not merely because he is paid to 
do so (frequently he does not receive a fee at all), but because he enjoys 
his work, because he firmly believes that murder must be punished. 
Thus the fictional detective is much more than a simple businessman. 
He is, first and foremost, a defender of public morals, a servant of 
society.   It is this curious blend of rugged individualism and 
public service which accounts for the great appeal of the mythological 
detective. By virtue of his self-reliance, his individualism and 
his freedom from external restraint, the private eye is a perfect embodiment 
of the middle class conception of liberty, which amounts to doing 
what you please and let the devil take the hindmost. At the same time, 
because the personal code of the detective coincides with the legal 
dictates of his society, because he likes to catch criminals, he is 
in middle class eyes a virtuous man. In this way, the private detective 
gets the best of two possible worlds. He is an individualist but 
not an anarchist; he is a public servant but not a cop. In short, the 
fictional private eye is a specialized version of Adam Smith's 
ideal entrepreneur, the man whose private ambitions must always and everywhere 
promote the public welfare. In the mystery story, as in <The 
Wealth of Nations,> individualism and the social good are two sides 
of the same benevolent coin. ##

THERE is only one 
catch to this idyllic arrangement: Adam Smith was wrong. Not only 
did the ideal entrepreneur not produce the greatest good for the greatest 
number, he ended by destroying himself, by giving birth to monopoly 
capitalism. The rise of the giant corporations in Western Europe 
and the United States dates from the period 1880-1900. Now, although 
the roots of the mystery story in serious literature go back as far 
as Balzac, Dickens, and Poe, it was not until the closing decades 
of the 19th century that the private detective became an established 
figure in popular fiction. Sherlock Holmes, the ancestor of all private 
eyes, was born during the 1890s. Thus the transformation of Adam 
Smith's ideal entrepreneur into a mythological detective coincides 
closely with the decline of the real entrepreneur in economic life. Driven 
from the marketplace by the course of history, our hero disguises 
himself as a private detective. The birth of the myth compensates 
for the death of the ideal.   Even on the fictional level, however, 
the contradictions which give rise to the mystery story are not fully 
resolved. The individualism and public service of the private detective 
both stem from his dedication to a personal code of conduct: 
he enforces the law without being told to do so. The private eye is therefore 
a moral man; but his morality rests upon that of his society. 
The basic premise of all mystery stories is that the distinction between 
good and bad coincides with the distinction between legal and illegal. 
Unfortunately, this assumption does not always hold good. As 
capitalism in the 20th century has become increasingly dependent upon 
force and violence for its survival, the private detective is placed 
in a serious dilemma. If he is good, he may not be legal; if he is 
legal, he may not be good. It is the gradual unfolding and deepening 
of this contradiction which creates the inner dialectic of the evolution 
of the mystery story. ##

WITH the advent of Sir Arthur 
Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes, the development of the modern private 
detective begins. Sherlock Holmes is not merely an individualist; 
he is very close to being a mental case. A brief list of the great 
detective's little idiosyncrasies would provide Dr& Freud with 
ample food for thought. Holmes is addicted to the use of cocaine and 
other refreshing stimulants; he is prone to semi-catatonic trances 
induced by the playing of the vioiln; he is a recluse, an incredible 
egotist, a confirmed misogynist. Holmes rebels against the social 
conventions of his day not on moral but rather on aesthetic grounds. His 
eccentricity begins as a defense against boredom. It was in order 
to avoid the stuffy routine of middle class life that Holmes became 
a detective in the first place. As he informs Watson, "My life is 
spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence. 
These little problems help me to do so". Holmes is a public servant, 
to be sure; but the society which he serves bores him to tears.

The curious relationship between Holmes and Scotland Yard 
provides an important clue to the deeper significance of his eccentric 
behavior. Although he is perfectly willing to cooperate with Scotland 
Yard, Holmes has nothing but contempt for the intelligence and mentality 
of the police. They for their part are convinced that Holmes 
is too "unorthodox" and "theoretical" to make a good detective. 
Why do the police find Holmes "unorthodox"? On the face of 
it, it is because he employs deductive techniques alien to official 
police routine. Another, more interesting explanation, is hinted at by 
Watson when he observes on several occasions that Holmes would have 
made a magnificent criminal. The great detective modestly agrees. Watson's 
insight is verified by the mysterious link between Holmes 
and his arch-opponent, Dr& Moriarty. The two men resemble each other 
closely in their cunning, their egotism, their relentlessness. The 
first series of Sherlock Holmes adventures ends with Holmes and Moriarty 
grappling together on the edge of a cliff. They are presumed 
to have plunged to a common grave in this fatal embrace. Linked to Holmes 
even in death, Moriarty represents the alter-ego of the great 
detective, the image of what our hero might have become were he not a 
public servant. Just as Holmes the eccentric stands behind Holmes the 
detective, so Holmes the potential criminal lurks behind both. ## 

IN the modern English "whodunnit", this insinuation of 
latent criminality in the detective himself has almost entirely disappeared. 
Hercule Poirot and Lord Peter Whimsey (the respective creations 
of Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers) have retained 
Holmes' 
egotism but not his zest for life and eccentric habits. Poirot and 
his counterparts are perfectly respectable people; it is true that 
they are also extremely dull. Their dedication to the status quo has 
been affirmed at the expense of the fascinating but dangerous individualism 
of a Sherlock Holmes. The latter's real descendents were unable 
to take root in England; they fled from the Victorian parlor 
and made their way across the stormy Atlantic. In the American "hardboiled" 
detective story of the '20s and '30s, the spirit of the 
mad genius from Baker Street lives on.   Like Holmes, the 
American private eye rejects the social conventions of his time. But 
unlike Holmes, he feels his society to be not merely dull but also corrupt. 
Surrounded by crime and violence everywhere, the "hardboiled" 
private eye can retain his purity only through a life of self-imposed 
isolation. His alienation is far more acute than Holmes'; he 
is not an eccentric but rather an outcast. With Rex Stout's Nero 
Wolfe, alienation is represented on a purely physical plane. Wolfe 
refuses to ever leave his own house, and spends most of his time drinking 
beer and playing with orchids. More profound and more disturbing, 
however, is the moral isolation of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe. 
In a society where everything is for sale, Marlowe is the only 
man who cannot be bought. His tough honesty condemns him to a solitary 
and difficult existence. Beaten, bruised and exhausted, he pursues 
the elusive killer through the demi-monde of high society and low 
morals, always alone, always despised. In the end, he gets his man, but 
no one seems to care; virtue is its own and only reward. A similar 
tone of underlying futility and despair pervades the spy thrillers 
of Eric Ambler and dominates the most famous of all American mystery 
stories, Dashiell Hammett's <The Maltese Falcon>. Sam Spade 
joins forces with a band of adventurers in search of a priceless jeweled 
statue of a falcon; but when the bird is found at last, it turns 
out to be a fake. Now the detective must save his own skin by informing 
on the girl he loves, who is also the real murderer. For Sam Spade, 
neither crime nor virtue pays; moreover, it is increasingly difficult 
to distinguish between the two.   Because the private eye 
intends to save society in spite of himself, he invariably finds himself 
in trouble with the police. The latter are either too stupid to 
catch the killer or too corrupt to care. In either case, they do not 
appreciate the private detective's zeal. Perry Mason and Hamilton 
Burger, Nero Wolfe and Inspector Cramer spend more time fighting 
each other than they do in looking for the criminal. Frequently enough, 
the police are themselves in league with the killer; Dashiell 
Hammett's 
<Red Harvest> provides a classic example of this theme. 
But even when the police are honest, they do not trust the private 
eye. He is, like Phillip Marlowe, too alienated to be reliable. Finally, 
in <The Maltese Falcon> among others, the clash between detective 
and police is carried to its logical conclusion: Sam Spade 
becomes the chief murder suspect. In order to exonerate himself, he 
is compelled to find the real criminal, who happens to be his girl friend. 
What was only a vague suspicion in the case of Sherlock Holmes 
now appears as a direct accusation: the private eye is in danger of 
turning into his opposite. ##

IT IS the growing contradiction 
between individualism and public service in the mystery story which 
creates this fatal dilemma. By upholding his own personal code of behavior, 
the private detective has placed himself in opposition to a society 
whose fabric is permeated with crime and corruption. That society 
responds by condemning the private eye as a threat to the status quo, 
a potential criminal. If the detective insists upon retaining his 
personal standards, he must now do so in conscious defiance of his society. 
He must, in short, cease to be a detective and become a rebel. 
On the other hand, if he wishes to continue in his chosen profession, 
he must abandon his own code and sacrifice his precious individualism. 
Dashiell Hammett resolved this contradiction by ceasing to write 
mystery 
stories and turning to other pursuits. His successors have adopted 
the opposite alternative. In order to save the mystery story, they 
have converted the private detective into an organization man.

The first of two possible variations on this theme is symbolized by 
Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer. At first glance, this hero seems 
to be more rather than less of an individualist than any of his predecessors. 
For Hammer, nothing is forbidden. He kills when he pleases, 
takes his women where he finds them and always acts as judge, jury 
and executioner rolled into one. 
It will be shown that the <objectives> of the cooperative people in 
an organization determine the type of <network> required, because the 
type of network functions according to the characteristics of the messages 
enumerated in Table 1. Great stress is placed on the role that 
the monitoring of information sending plays in maintaining the effectiveness 
of the network. By monitoring, we mean some system of control 
over the types of information sent from the various centers. 
As a word of caution, we should be aware that in actual practice no 
message is purely one of the four types, question, command, statement, 
or exclamation. For example, suppose a man wearing a $200 watch, driving 
a 1959 Rolls Royce, stops to ask a man on the sidewalk, "What 
time is it"? This sentence would have most of the characteristics 
of a question, but it has some of the characteristics of a statement 
because the questioner has conveyed the fact that he has no faith in 
his own timepiece or the one attached to his car. If the man on the 
sidewalk is surprised at this question, it has served as an exclamation. 
Also, since the man questioned feels a strong compulsion to answer 
(and thereby avoid the consequences of being thought queer) the question 
has assumed some measurable properties of a command. However, for 
convenience we will stick to the idea that information can be classified 
according to Table 1. On this basis, certain extreme kinds of networks 
will be discussed for illustrative purposes. 

#NETWORKS ILLUSTRATING 
SOME SPECIAL TYPES OF ORGANIZATION#

_THE COCKTAIL PARTY._ 
Presumably a cocktail party is expected to fulfill the host's desire 
to get together a number of people who are inadequately acquainted 
and thereby arrange for bringing the level of acquaintance up to adequacy 
for future cooperative endeavors. The party is usually in a room 
small enough so that all guests are within sight and hearing of one another. 
The information is furnished by each of the guests, is sent by 
oral broadcasting over the air waves, and is received by the ears. Since 
the air is a continuum, the network of communication remains intact 
regardless of the positions or motions of the points (the people) 
in the net. As shown in Figure 1, there is a connection for communication 
between every pair of points. This, and other qualifications, make 
the cocktail party the most complete and most chaotic communication 
system ever dreamed up. All four types of message listed in Table 
1 are permitted, although decorum and cocktail tradition require holding 
the commands to a minimum, while <exclamations> having complimentary 
intonations are more than customarily encouraged. The completeness 
of the connections provide that, for ~<N> people, there are **f 
lines of communication between the pairs, which can become a large number 
(1,225) for a party of fifty guests. Looking at the diagram, we 
see that **f connection lines come in to each member. Thus the cocktail 
party would appear to be the ideal system, but there is one weakness. 
In spite of the dreams of the host for oneness in the group, the 
**f incoming messages for each guest overload his receiving system beyond 
comprehension if ~<N> exceeds about six. The crowd consequently 
breaks up into temporary groups ranging in size from two to six, with 
a half-life for the cluster ranging from three to twenty minutes.

For the occasion on which everyone already knows everyone else 
and the host wishes them to meet one or a few honored newcomers, then 
the "open house" system is advantageous because the honored guests 
are fixed connective points and the drifting guests make and break connections 
at the door. _THE RURAL COMMUNITY._ We consider a rural 
community as an assemblage of inhabited dwellings whose configuration 
is determined by the location and size of the arable land sites necessary 
for family subsistence. We assume for this illustration that the 
size of the land plots is so great that the distance between dwellings 
is greater than the voice can carry and that most of the communication 
is between nearest neighbors only, as shown in Figure 2. Information 
beyond nearest neighbor is carried second-, third-, and fourth-hand 
as a distortable rumor. In Figure 2, the points in the network are 
designated by a letter accompanied by a number. The numbers indicate 
the number of nearest neighbors. It will be noted that point ~<f> 
has seven nearest neighbors, ~<h> and ~<e> have six, and ~<p> 
has only one, while the remaining points have intermediate numbers. 
In any social system in which communications have an importance 
comparable with that of production and other human factors, a point 
like ~<f> in Figure 2 would (other things being equal) be the dwelling 
place for the community leader, while ~<e> and ~<h> would 
house the next most important citizens. A point like ~<p> gets 
information directly from ~<n>, but all information beyond ~<n> 
is indirectly relayed through ~<n>. The dweller at ~<p> is 
last to hear about a new cure, the slowest to announce to his neighbors 
his urgent distresses, the one who goes the farthest to trade, and the 
one with the greatest difficulty of all in putting over an idea or 
getting people to join him in a cooperative effort. Since the hazards 
of poor communication are so great, ~<p> can be justified as a habitable 
site only on the basis of unusual productivity such as is made 
available by a waterfall for milling purposes, a mine, or a sugar maple 
camp. Location theorists have given these matters much consideration. 
_MILITARY ORGANIZATIONS._ The networks for military communications 
are one of the best examples of networks which not only must be 
changed with the changes in objectives but also must be changed with the 
addition of new machines of war. They also furnish proof that, in 
modern war, message sending must be monitored. Without monitoring, a 
military hookup becomes a noisy party. The need for monitoring became 
greater when radio was adopted for military signaling. Alexander the 
Great, who used runners as message carriers, did not have to worry about 
having every officer in his command hear what he said and having 
hundreds of them comment at once. As time has passed and science has 
progressed, the speed of military vehicles has increased, the range of 
missiles has been extended, the use of target-hunting noses on the projectiles 
has been adopted, and the range and breadth of message sending 
has increased. Next to the old problem of the slowness of decision 
making, network structure seems to be paramount, and without monitoring 
no network has value.   On the parade ground the net may be similar 
to that shown in Figure 3. The monitoring is the highest and 
most restrictive of any organization in existence. No questions, statements, 
or explanations are permitted- only commands. Commands go only 
from an officer to the man of nearest lower rank. The same command 
is repeated as many times as there are levels in rank from general to 
corporal. All orders originate with the officer of highest rank and 
terminate with action of the men in the ranks. Even the officer in charge, 
be it a captain (for small display) or a general, is restrained 
by monitoring. This is done for simplicity of commands and to bring the 
hidden redundancy up to where misunderstanding has almost zero possibility. 
The commands are specified by the military regulations; are 
few in number, briefly worded, all different in sound; and are combinable 
into sequences which permit any marching maneuver that could be 
desired on a parade ground. This monitoring is necessary because, on 
a parade ground, everyone can hear <too much>, and without monitoring 
a confused social event would develop.   With troops dispersed 
on fields of battle rather than on the parade ground, it may seem that 
a certain amount of monitoring is automatically enforced by the lines 
of communication. Years ago this was true, but with the replacement 
of wires or runners by radio and radar (and perhaps television), these 
restrictions have disappeared and now again <too much> is heard.

In contrast to cocktail parties, military organizations, even 
in the field, are more formal. In the extreme and oversimplified example 
suggested in Figure 3, the organization is more easily understood 
and more predictable in behavior. A military organization has an objective 
chosen by the higher command. This objective is adhered to throughout 
the duration of the action. The connective system, or network, 
is tailored to meet the requirements of the objective, and it is therefore 
not surprising that a military body acting as a single coordinated 
unit has a different communication network than a factory, a college, 
or a rural village.   The assumptions upon which the example 
shown 
in Figure 3 is based are: (a) One man can direct about six subordinates 
if the subordinates are chosen carefully so that they do not 
need too much personal coaching, indoctrinating, etc&. (b) A message 
runs too great a risk of being distorted if it is to be relayed more 
than about six consecutive times. (c) Decisions of a general kind 
are made by the central command. And (d) all action of a physical kind 
pertinent to the mission is relegated to the line of men on the lower 
rank. These assumptions lead to an organization with one man at the 
top, six directly under him, six under each of these, and so on until 
there are six levels of personnel. The number of people acting as one 
body by this scheme gives a surprisingly large army of **f 55,987 
men.   This organizational network would be of no avail if there 
were no regulations pertaining to the types of message sent. Of types 
of message listed in Table 1, commands and statements are the only 
ones sent through the vertical network shown in Figure 3. A further 
regulation is that commands always go <down>, unaccompanied by statements, 
and statements always go <up>, unaccompanied by commands. Questions 
and, particularly, exclamations are usually channeled along informal, 
horizontal lines not indicated in Figure 3 and seldom are carried 
beyond the nearest neighbor.   It will readily be seen that 
in this suggested network (not materially different from some of the 
networks in vogue today) greater emphasis on monitoring is implied than 
is usually put into practice. Furthermore, the network in Figure 
3 is only the basic net through which other networks pertaining to logistics 
and the like are interlaced.   Not discussed here are some 
military problems of modern times such as undersea warfare, where the 
surveillance, sending, transmitting, and receiving are all so inadequate 
that networks and decision making are not the bottlenecks. Such 
problems are of extreme interest as well as importance and are so much 
like fighting in a rain forest or guerrilla warfare at night in tall 
grass that we might have to re-examine primitive conflicts for what they 
could teach. _A TEAM FOR USEFUL RESEARCH._ This is an unsolved 
problem which probably has never been seriously investigated, although 
one frequently hears the comment that we have insufficient <specialists> 
of the kind who can compete with the Germans or Swiss, for example, 
in precision machinery and mathematics, or the Finns in geochemistry. 
We hear equally fervent concern over the belief that we have 
not enough <generalists> who can see the over-all picture and combine 
our national skills and knowledge for useful purposes. This problem 
of the optimum balance in the relative numbers of generalists and 
specialists can be investigated on a communicative network basis. Since 
the difficulty of drawing the net is great, we will merely discuss 
it.   First, we realize that a pure specialist does not exist. But, 
for practical purposes, we have people who can be considered as such. 
For example, there are persons who are in physical science, in the 
field of mineralogy, trained in crystallography, who use only X-rays, 
applying only the powder technique of X-ray diffraction, to clay 
minerals only, and who have spent the last fifteen years concentrating 
on the montmorillonites; or persons in the social sciences in the 
field of anthropology, studying the lung capacity of seven Andean 
Indians. So we see that a specialist is a man who knows more and more 
about less and less as he develops, as contrasted to the generalist, 
who knows less and less about more and more. 
AMERICAN DEMOCRATIC THOUGHT, pointed up the relation between the 
Protestant movement in this country and the development of a social 
religion, which he called the American Democratic Faith. Those familiar 
with his work will remember that he placed the incipience of the 
democratic faith at around 1850. And he describes it as a balanced polarity 
between the notions of the free individual and what he called 
the fundamental law.   I want to say more about Gabriel's so-called 
fundamental law. But first I want to quote him on the relationship 
that he found between religion and politics in this country and 
what happened to it. He points out that from the time of Jackson on 
through World War /1,, evangelical Protestantism was a dominant influence 
in the social and political life of America. He terms this 
early enthusiasm "Romantic Christianity" and concludes that its 
similarity to democratic beliefs of that day is so great that "the doctrine 
of liberty seems but a secular version of its counterpart in evangelical 
Protestantism". Let me quote him even more fully, for his 
analysis is important to my theme.   He says: "Beside the 
Protestant philosophy of Progress, as expressed in radical or conservative 
millenarianism, should be placed the doctrine of the democratic 
faith which affirmed it to be the duty of the destiny of the United 
States to assist in the creation of a better world by keeping lighted 
the beacon of democracy". He specifies, "In the middle period 
of the Nineteenth Century it was colored by Christian supernaturalism, 
in the Twentieth Century it was affected by naturalism. But in 
every period it has been humanism". And let me add, utopianism, also.

Some fourteen or fifteen years ago, in an essay I called 
<The Leader Follows- Where?> I used his polarity to illustrate 
what I thought had happened to us in that form of liberalism we call 
Progressivism. It seemed to me that the liberals had scrapped the 
balanced polarity and reposed both liberty and the fundamental law 
in the common man. That is to say Gabriel's fundamental law had been 
so much modified by this time that it was neither fundamental nor 
law any more. It is a weakness of Gabriel's analysis that he never 
seems to realize that his so-called fundamental law had already been 
cut loose from its foundations when it was adapted to democracy. And 
with Progressivism the Religion of Humanity was replacing what Gabriel 
called Christian supernaturalism. And the common man was developing 
mythic power, or charisma, on his own.   During the decade 
that followed, the common man, as that piece put it, grew uncomfortable 
as the Voice of God and fled from behind Saint Woodrow (Wilson) 
only to learn from Science, to his shocked relief that after all there 
was no God he had to speak for and that he was just an animal anyhow- 
that there was a chemical formula for him, and that too much couldn't 
be expected of him.   The socialism implicit in the slogan 
of the Roosevelt Revolution, freedom from want and fear, seems a 
far cry from the individualism of the First Amendment to the Constitution, 
or of the Jacksonian frontier. What had happened to the common 
man?   French Egalitarianism had had only nominal influence 
in this country before the days of Popularism. The riotous onrush 
of industrialism after the War for Southern Independence and the general 
secular drift to the Religion of Humanity, however, prepared 
the way for a reception of the French Revolution's socialistic offspring 
of one sort of another. The first of which to find important place 
in our federal government was the graduated income tax under Wilson. 
Moreover the centralization of our economy during the 1920s, the 
dislocations of the Depression, the common ethos of Materialism everywhere, 
all contributed in various ways to the face-lifting that replaced 
Mike Fink and the Great Gatsby with the anonymous physiognomy 
of the Little People.   However, it is important to trace the 
philosophy of the French Revolution to its sources to understand the 
common democratic origin of individualism and socialism and the influence 
of the latter on the former. That John Locke's philosophy of 
the social contract fathered the American Revolution with its Declaration 
of Independence, I believe, we generally accept. Yet, after 
Rousseau had given the <social contract> a new twist with his notion 
of the General Will, the same philosophy, it may be said, became 
the idea source of the French Revolution also.   The importance 
of Rousseau's twist has not always been clear to us, however. This 
notion of the General Will gave rise to the Commune of Paris in 
the Revolution and later brought Napoleon to dictatorship. And it 
is clearly argued by Lord Percy of Newcastle, in his remarkable long 
essay, <The Heresy of Democracy>, and in a more general way by 
Voegelin, in his <New Science of Politics>, that this same Rousseauan 
idea, descending through European democracy, is the source of 
Marx's theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat. This is important 
to understanding the position that doctrinaire liberals found themselves 
in after World War /2, and our great democratic victory 
that brought no peace.   The long road that had taken liberals in 
this country into the social religion of democracy, into a worship of 
man, led logically to the Marxist dream of a classless society under 
a Socialist State. And the ~USSR existed as the revolutionary 
experiment in radical socialism, the ultimate exemplar. And by the 
time the war ended, liberal leadership in this country was spiritually 
Marxist.   We will recall that the still confident liberals of 
the Truman administration gathered with other Western utopians in 
San Francisco to set up the legal framework, finally and at last, to 
rationalize war- to rationalize want and fear- out of the world: 
the United Nations. We of the liberal-led world got all set for peace 
and rehabilitation. Then suddenly we found ourselves in the middle 
of another fight, an irrational, an indecent, an undeclared and immoral 
war with our strongest (and some had thought noblest) ally.

During the next five years the leaders of the Fair Deal reluctantly 
backed down from the optimistic expectations of the New Deal. During 
the next five years liberal leaders in the United States sank in 
the cumulative confusion attendant upon and manifested in a negative 
policy of Containment- and the bitterest irony- enforced and enforceable 
only by threat of a weapon that we felt the greatest distaste 
for but could not abandon: the atom bomb. In 1952, it will be remembered, 
the G&O&P& without positive program campaigned on the 
popular disillusionment with liberal leadership and won overwhelmingly.

All of this, I know, is recent history familiar to you. But 
I have been at some pains to review it as the drama of the common 
man, to point up what happened to him under Eisenhower's leadership.

A perceptive journalist, Sam Lubell, has phrased it in the 
title of one of his books as THE REVOLT OF THE MODERATES. He opens 
his discourse, however, with a review of the Eisenhower inaugural 
festivities at which a sympathetic press had assembled its massive talents, 
all primed to catch some revelation of the emerging new age. The 
show was colorful, indeed, exuberant, but the press for all its assiduity 
could detect no note of a fateful rendezvous with destiny.

Lubell offers his book as an explanation of why there was no clue. 
And I select this sentence as its pertinent summation: "In essence 
the drama of his (Eisenhower's) Presidency can be described 
as the ordeal of a nation turned conservative and struggling- thus far 
with but limited and precarious success- to give effective voice 
and force to that conservatism".   I will assume that we are 
all aware of the continuing struggle, with its limited and precarious 
success, toward conservatism. It has moved on various levels, it has 
been clamorous and confused. Obviously there has been no agreement on 
what American conservatism is, or rather, what it should be. For it 
was neglected, not to say nascent, when the struggle began. I saw a 
piece the other day assailing William Buckley, author of MAN AND 
GOD AT YALE and publisher of the <National Review>, as no conservative 
at all, but an old liberal. I would agree with this view. But 
I'm not here to define conservatism.   What I am here to do 
is to report on the gyrations of the struggle- a struggle that amounts 
to self-redefinition- to see if we can predict its future course.

One of the obvious conclusions we can make on the basis of 
the last election, I suppose, is that we, the majority, were dissatisfied 
with Eisenhower conservatism. Though, to be sure, we gave Kennedy 
no very positive approval in the margin of his preferment. 
This is, however, symptomatic of our national malaise. But before I 
try to diagnose it, I would offer other evidence. I will mention two 
volumes of specific comment on this malaise that appeared last year. 
The earlier of them was an unofficial enterprise, sponsored by <Life> 
magazine, under the title of <the National purpose>. The contributors 
to this testament were all well-known: a former Democratic 
candidate for President, a New Deal poet, the magazine's chief 
editorial writer, two newspaper columnists, head of a national broadcasting 
company, a popular Protestant evangelist, etc&. What I want 
to point out here is that all of them are ex-liberals, or modified liberals, 
with perhaps one exception. I suppose we might classify Billy 
Graham as an old liberal. And I would further note that they all- 
with one exception again- sang in one key or another the same song. 
Its refrain was: "Let us return to the individualistic democracy 
of our forefathers for our salvation".   Adlai Stevenson 
expressed some reservations about this return. Others invoked technology 
and common sense. Only Walter Lippman envisioned the possibility 
of our having "outlived most of what we used to regard as the program 
of our national purposes".   But the most notable thing about 
the incantation of these ex-liberals was that the one-time shibboleth 
of <socialism> was conspicuously absent.   The second specific 
comment was the report of Eisenhower's Commission on National 
Goals, titled GOALS FOR AMERICANS. They, perhaps, gave the pitch 
of their position in the preface where it was said that Eisenhower 
requested that the Commission be administered by the American Assembly 
of Columbia University, because it was <non-partisan>. The 
Commission seems to represent the viewpoint of what I would call the 
<unconscious> liberal, but not unconscious enough, to invoke the now 
taboo symbolism of socialism. And here again we hear the same refrain 
mentioned above: "The paramount goal of the United States 
**h set long ago **h was to guard the rights of the individual **h ensure 
his development **h enlarge his opportunity". This group is secularist 
and their program tends to be technological.   But it is 
the need to undertake these testaments that I would submit here as 
symptom of the common man's malaise. And let me add Murray's new 
book as another symptom of it, particularly so in view of the attention 
TIME magazine gave it when it came out recently. Father Murray 
goes back to the Declaration of Independence, too, though I may 
add, with considerably more historical perception.   I will reserve 
discussion of it for a moment, however, to return to President Kennedy. 
As symptomatic of the common man's malaise, he is most significant: 
a liberal and a Catholic, elected by the skin of his teeth. 
Does that not suggest to you an uncertain and uneasy, not to say confused, 
state of the public mind?   What is the common man's 
complaint? Let's take a panoramic look back over the course we 
have come. Has not that way been lit always by the lamp of liberalism 
up until the turning back under Eisenhower? And the basic character 
of that liberalism has been spiritual rather than economic. Ralph 
Gabriel gave it the name of Protestant philosophy of Progress. But 
there's a subjective side to that utopian outlook.

DOES our society have a runaway, uncontrollable growth of 
technology which may end our civilization, or a normal, healthy growth? 
Here there may be an analogy with cancer: we can detect cancers 
by their rapidly accelerating growth, determinable only when related 
to the more normal rate of healthy growth. Should the accelerating 
growth of technology then warn us? Noting such evidence is the first 
step; and almost the only "cure" is <early> detection and removal. 
One way to determine whether we have so dangerous a technology 
would be to check the strength of our society's organs to see if their 
functioning is as healthy as before. So an objective look at our 
present procedures may move us to consider seriously this possibly analogous 
situation. In any event, whether society may have cancer, or merely 
a virus infection, the "disease", we shall find, is political, 
economical, social, and even medical. Have not our physical abilities 
already deteriorated because of the more sedentary lives we are now 
living? Hence the prime issue, as I see it, is whether a democratic 
or free society can master technology for the benefit of mankind, 
or whether technology will rule and develop its own society compatible 
with <its> own needs as a force of nature.   We are already committed 
to establishing man's supremacy over nature and everywhere 
on earth, not merely in the limited social-political-economical context 
we are fond of today. Otherwise, we go on endlessly trying to draw 
the line, color and other, as to which kind of man we wish to see dominate. 
We have proved so able to solve technological problems that to 
contend we cannot realize a universal goal in the immediate future is 
to be extremely shortsighted, if nothing else. We must believe we have 
the ability to affect our own destinies: otherwise why try anything? 
So in these pages the term "technology" is used to include any 
and all means which could amplify, project, or augment man's control 
over himself and over other men. Naturally this includes all communication 
forms, e&g& languages, or any social, political, economic 
or religious structures employed for such control. Properly mindful 
of <all> the cultures in existence today throughout the world, we must 
employ these resources without war or violent revolution.   If 
we were creating a wholly new society, we could insist that our social, 
political, economic and philosophic institutions foster rather than 
hamper man; best growth. But we cannot start off with a clean slate. 
So we must first analyze our present institutions with respect to 
the effect of each on man's major needs. Asked which institution 
most needs correction, I would say the corporation as it exists in America 
today. At first glance this appears strange: of all people, 
was not America founded by rugged individualists who established a new 
way of life still inspiring "undeveloped" societies abroad? But 
hear Harrison E& Salisbury, former Moscow correspondent of The 
New York Times, and author of "To Moscow- And Beyond". 
In a book review of "The Soviet Cultural Offensive", he says, 
"Long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into 
an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive 
within Soviet borders, the sharp cutting-edge of American 
culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes, as when the enterprising 
promoters of 'Porgy and Bess' overrode the State Department 
to carry the contemporary 'cultural warfare' behind the 
enemy lines. They were not diplomats or jazz musicians, or even organizers 
of reading-rooms and photo-montage displays, but rugged capitalist 
entrepreneurs like Henry Ford, Hugh Cooper, Thomas Campbell, 
the International Harvester Co&, and David W& Griffith. Their 
kind created an American culture superior to any in the world, an 
industrial and technological culture which penetrated Russia as it did 
almost every corner of the earth without a nickel from the Federal 
treasury or a single governmental specialist to contrive directives or 
program a series of consultations of interested agencies. This favorable 
image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is still 
there despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda **h" 

#CORPORATIONS NOW OUTMODED#

Perhaps the public's present attitude 
toward business stems from the fact that the "rugged capitalist entrepreneur" 
no more exists in America. In his stead is a milquetoast 
version known as "the corporation". But even if we cannot see 
the repulsive characteristics in this new image of America, foreigners 
can; and our loss of "prestige" abroad is the direct result. 
No amount of ballyhoo will cover up the sordid facts. If we want respect 
from ourselves or others, we will have to earn it. First, let us 
realize that whatever good this set-up achieved in earlier times, now 
the corporation <per se> cannot take economic leadership. Businesses 
must develop as a result of the ideas, energies and ambitions of an 
individual having purpose and comprehensive ability within <one> mind. 
When we "forced" individuals to assume the corporate structure 
by means of taxes and other legal statutes, we adopted what I would 
term "pseudo-capitalism" and so took a major step toward socialism. 
The biggest loss, of course, was the individual's lessened desire 
and ability to give his services to the growth of his company and 
our economy. Socialism, I grant, has a definite place in our society. 
But let us not complain of the evils of capitalism by referring to 
a form that is not truly capitalistic. Some forms of capitalism do indeed 
work- superb organizations, a credit to any society. But the pseudo-capitalism 
which dictates our whole economy as well as our politics 
and social life, will not stand close scrutiny. Its pretense to operate 
in the public interest is little more than a sham. It serves 
only its own stockholders and poorly at that. As a creative enterprise, 
its abilities are primarily in "swallowing" creative enterprises 
developed outside its own organization (an ability made possible by 
us, and almost mandatory). As to benefits to employees, it is notorious 
for its callous disregard except where it depends on them for services.

The corporation in America is in reality our form of socialism, 
vying in a sense with the other socialistic form that has emerged 
within governmental bureaucracy. But while the corporation has all 
the disadvantages of the socialist form of organization (so cumbersome 
it cannot constructively do much of anything not compatible with its 
need to perpetuate itself and maintain its status quo), unluckily it 
does not have the desirable aspect of socialism, the motivation to operate 
for the benefit of society as a whole. So we are faced with a 
vast network of amorphous entities perpetuating themselves in whatever 
manner they can, without regard to the needs of society, controlling 
society and forcing upon it a regime representing only the corporation's 
needs for survival.   The corporation has a limited, specific 
place in our society. Ideally speaking, it should be allowed to operate 
only where the public has a great stake in the continuity of supply 
or services, and where the actions of a single proprietor are secondary 
to the needs of society. Examples are in public utilities, making 
military aircraft and accessories, or where the investment and risk 
for a proprietorship would be too great for a much needed project impossible 
to achieve by any means other than the corporate form, e&g& 
constructing major airports or dams. Thus, if corporations are not 
to run away with us, they must become quasi-governmental institutions, 
subject to public control and needs. In all other areas, private initiative 
of the "proprietorship" type should be urged to produce the 
desired goods and services. 

#PROPRIETORSHIP#

Avoiding runaway 
technology can be done only by assuring a humane society; and for this 
human beings must be firmly in control of the economics on which our 
society rests. Such genuine human leadership the proprietorship can 
offer, corporations cannot. It can project long-range goals for itself. 
Corporations react violently to short-range stimuli, e& g&, 
quarterly and annual dividend reports. Proprietorships can establish 
a unity and integrity of control; corporations, being more amorphous, 
cannot. Proprietorships can establish a meaningful identity, representing 
a human personality, and thus establish sincere relationships with 
customers and community. Corporations are apt by nature to be impersonal, 
inhumane, shortsighted and almost exclusively profit-motivated, 
a picture they could scarcely afford to present to the public. The 
proprietor is able to create a leadership impossible in the corporate 
structure with its board of directors and stockholders. Leadership is 
lacking in our society because it has no legitimate place to develop. 
Men continuously at the head of growing enterprises can acquire experiences 
of the most varied, complicated and trying type so that at maturation 
they have developed the competence and willingness to accept 
the personal responsibility so sorely needed now.   Hence government 
must establish greater controls upon corporations so that their 
activities promote what is deemed essential to the national interest. 
Proprietorships should get the tax advantages now accruing to corporations, 
e& g& the chance to accumulate capital so vital for growth. 
Corporations should pay added taxes, to be used for educational purposes 
(not necessarily of the formal type). The right to leave legacies 
should be substantially reduced and ultimately eliminated. To perpetuate 
wealth control led by small groups of individuals who played no 
role in its creation prevents those with real initiative from coming to 
the fore, and is basically anti-democratic. When the proprietor dies, 
the establishment should become a corporation until it is either acquired 
by another proprietor or the government decides to drop it. Strikes 
should be declared illegal against corporations because disagreements 
would have to be settled by government representatives acting as 
controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would 
now be defined against proprietorship because employees and proprietors 
must be completely interdependent, as they are each a part of the 
whole. Strikes threatening the security of the proprietorship, if internally 
motivated, prevent a healthy relationship. Certainly external 
forces 
should not be applied arbitrarily out of mere power available to 
do so. <If we cannot stop warfare in our own economic system, how can 
we expect to abolish it internationally?> 

#ONE KIND OF PROPRIETORSHIP# 

These proposals would go far toward creating the economic 
atmosphere favoring growth of the individual, who, in turn, would help 
us to cope with runaway technology. Individual <human> strength is 
needed to pit against an inhuman condition. The battle is not easy. 
We are tempted to blame others for our problems rather than look them 
straight in the face and realize they are of our own making and possible 
of solution only by ourselves with the help of desperately needed, 
enlightened, competent leaders. Persons developed in to-day's corporations 
cannot hope to serve here- a judgment based on experiences 
of my own in business and in activities outside. In my own company, in 
effect a partnership, although legally a corporation, I have been able 
to do many things for my employees which "normal" corporations 
of comparable size and nature would have been unable to do. Also, I 
am convinced that if my company were a sole proprietorship instead of 
a partnership, I would have been even abler to solve long-range problems 
for myself and my fellow-employees. Any abilities I may have were 
achieved in their present shape from experience in sharing in the 
growth and control of my business, coupled with raising my family. This 
combined experience, on a foundation of very average, I assure you, 
intelligence and background, has helped me do things many well-informed 
people would bet heavily against. Perhaps a list of some of the "practices" 
of my company will help here.   The company grew 
out of efforts by two completely inexperienced men in their late twenties, 
neither having a formal education applicable to, or experience in, 
manufacturing or selling our type of articles. From an initial investment 
of $1,200 in 1943, it has grown, with no additional capital investment, 
to a present value estimated by some as exceeding $10,000,000 
(<we> don't disclose financial figures to the public). Its growth 
continues steadily on a par with past growth; and no limitation is 
in evidence. Our pin-curl clips and self-locking nuts achieved dominance 
in just a few years time, despite substantial, well established competition.

DURING the last years of Woodrow Wilson's administration, 
a red scare developed in our country. Many Americans reacted irrationally 
to the challenge of Russia and turned to the repression of 
ideas by force. Postmaster General Burleson set about to protect the 
American people against radical propaganda that might be spread through 
the mails. Attorney General Palmer made a series of raids that 
sent more than 4,000 so-called radicals to the jails, in direct violation 
of their constitutional rights. Then, not many years later, the 
Un-American Activities Committee, under the leadership of Martin 
Dies, pilloried hundreds of decent, patriotic citizens. Anyone who 
tried to remedy some of the most glaring defects in our form of democracy 
was denounced as a traitorous red whose real purpose was the destruction 
of our government. This hysteria reached its height under the 
leadership of Senator Joseph McCarthy. Demagogues of this sort found 
communist bogeys lurking behind any new idea that would run counter 
to stereotyped notions. New ideas were dangerous and must be repressed, 
no matter how.   Those who would suppress dangerous thoughts, 
credit ideas with high potency. They give strict interpretation to 
William James' statement that "Every idea that enters the mind 
tends to express itself". They seem to believe that a person will 
act automatically as soon as he contacts something new. Hence, the only 
defensible procedure is to repress any and every notion, unless it 
gives evidence that it is perfectly safe.   Despite this danger, 
however, we are informed on every hand that ideas, not machines, are 
our finest tools; they are priceless even though they cannot be recorded 
on a ledger page; they are the most valuable of commodities- 
and the most salable, for their demand far exceeds supply. So all-important 
are ideas, we are told, that persons successful in business and 
happy in social life usually fall into two classes: those who invent 
new ideas of their own, and those who borrow, beg, or steal from others.

Seemingly, with an unrestricted flow of ideas, all will 
be well, and we are even assured that "an idea a day will keep the sheriff 
away". That, however, may also bring the police, if the thinking 
does not meet with social approval. Criminals, as well as model 
citizens, exercise their minds. Merely having a mental image of some 
sort is not the all-important consideration.   Of course, there 
must be clarity: a single distinct impression is more valuable than 
many fuzzy ones. But clarity is not enough. The writer took a class 
of college students to the state hospital for the mentally ill in St& 
Joseph, Missouri. An inmate, a former university professor, expounded 
to us, logically and clearly, that someone was pilfering his thoughts. 
He appealed to us to bring his case to the attention of the authorities 
that justice might be done. Despite the clarity of his presentation, 
his idea was not of Einsteinian calibre.   True, ideas 
are important, perhaps life's most precious treasures. But have we 
not gone overboard in stressing their significance? Have we not actually 
developed idea worship?   Ideas we must have, and we seek 
them everywhere. We scour literature for them; here we find stored 
the wisdom of great minds. But are all these works worthy of consideration? 
Can they stand rigid scrutiny?   Shakespeare's 
wit and wisdom, his profound insight into human nature, have stood the 
test of centuries. But was he infallible in all things? What of 
his treatment of the Jew in <The Merchant of Venice?> 
Shakespeare 
gives us a vivid picture of Shylock, but probably he never saw a 
Jew, unless in some of his travels. The Jews had been banished from 
England in 1290 and were not permitted to return before 1655, when 
Shakespeare had been dead for thirty-nine years. If any had escaped 
expulsion by hiding, they certainly would not frequent the market-place.

Shakespeare did not usually invent the incidents in his plays, 
but borrowed them from old stories, ballads, and plays, wove them 
together, and then breathed into them his spark of life. Rather than 
from a first-hand study of Jewish people, his delineation of Shylock 
stems from a collection of Italian stories, <Il Pecorone>, published 
in 1558, 
although written almost two centuries earlier. He could 
learn at second hand from books, but could not thus capture the real 
Jewish spirit. Harris J& Griston, in <Shaking The Dust From 
Shakespeare> (216), writes: "There is not a word spoken by Shylock 
which one would expect from a real Jew".   He took the 
story of the pound of flesh and had to fasten it on someone. The Jew 
was the safest victim. No Jew was on hand to boycott his financially 
struggling theater. It would have been unwise policy, for instance, 
to apply the pound-of-flesh characterization to the thrifty Scotchman. 
Just as now anyone may hurl insults at a citizen of Mars, or even 
of Tikopia, and no senatorial investigation will result. Who cares 
about them!   Shakespeare does not tell us that Shylock was an 
aberrant individual. He sets him forth as being typical of the group. 
He tells of his "Jewish heart"- not a Shylockian heart; 
but a Jewish heart. This would make anyone crafty and cruel, capable 
of fiendish revenge.   There is no justification for such misrepresentation. 
If living Jews were unavailable for study, the Bible 
was at hand. Reading the Old Testament would have shown the dramatist 
that the ideas attributed to Shylock were abhorrent to the Jews.

Are we better off for having Shakespeare's idea of Shylock? 
Studying <The Merchant of Venice> in high school and college 
has given many young people their notions about Jews. Does this help 
the non-Jew to understand this group?   Thomas de Torquemada, 
Inquisitor-General of the Spanish Inquisition, put many persons 
to death. His name became synonymous with cold-blooded cruelty. Would 
we gain by keeping alive his memory and besmirching today's Roman 
Catholics by saying he had a Catholic heart? Let his bones and 
his memory rest in the fifteenth century where they belong; he is 
out of place in our times. Shakespeare's Shylock, too, is of dubious 
value in the modern world.   Ideas, in and of themselves, are 
not necessarily the greatest good. A successful businessman recently 
prefaced his address to a luncheon group with the statement that all 
economists should be sent to the hospitals for the mentally deranged where 
they and their theories might rot together. Will his words come 
to be treasured and quoted through the years?   Frequently we 
are given assurance that automatically all ideas will be sifted and resifted 
and in the end only the good ones will survive. But is that not 
like going to a chemistry laboratory and blindly pouring out liquids 
and powders from an array of bottles and then, after stirring, expecting 
a new wonder drug inevitably to result?   What of the efficiency 
of this natural instrument of free discussion? Is there some 
magic in it that assures results?   When Peter B& Kyne 
(<Pride of Palomar>, 43) informed us in 1921 that we had an <instinctive> 
dislike for the Japanese, did the heated debates of the Californians 
settle the truth or falsity of the proposition?   <The 
Leopard's Spots> came from the pen of Thomas Dixon in 1902, 
and in this he announced an "unchangeable" law. If a child had 
a single drop of Negro blood, he would revert to the ancestral line which, 
except as slaves under a superior race, had not made one step of 
progress in 3,000 years. That doctrine has been accepted by many, but 
has it produced good results?   In the same vein, a certain 
short-story plot has been overworked. The son and heir of a prominent 
family marries a girl who has tell-tale shadows on the half-moons of 
her finger nails. In time she presents her aristocratic husband with 
a coal-black child. Is the world better for having this idea thrust upon 
it? Will argument and debate decide its truth or falsity?

For answers to such questions we must turn to the anthropologists, 
the biologists, the historians, the psychologists, and the sociologists. 
Long ago they consigned the notions of Kyne and Dixon to the scrap 
heap.   False ideas surfeit another sector of our life. For 
several generations much fiction has appeared dealing with the steprelationship. 
The stepmother, almost without exception, has been presented 
as a cruel ogress. Children, conditioned by this mistaken notion, 
have feared stepmothers, while adults, by their antagonistic attitudes, 
have made the role of the substitute parents a difficult one. Debate 
is not likely to resolve the tensions and make the lot of the stepchild 
a happier one. Research, on the other hand, has shown many stepmothers 
to be eminently successful, some far better than the real mothers.

Helen Deutsch informed us (<The Psychology of Women>, 
Vol& /2,, 434) that in all cultures "the term 'stepmother' 
automatically evokes deprecatory implications", a conclusion accepted 
by many. Will mere debate on that proposition, even though it be 
free and untrammeled, remove the dross and leave a residue of refined 
gold? That is questionable, to say the least. Research into several 
cultures has proven her position to be a mistaken one.   Most 
assuredly ideas are invaluable. But ideas, just for the sake of having 
them, are not enough. In the 1930's, cures for the depression literally 
flooded Washington. For a time the President received hundreds 
of them every day, most of them worthless.   Ideas need to be 
tested, and not merely by argument and debate. When some question arises 
in the medical field concerning cancer, for instance, we do not 
turn to free and open discussion as in a political campaign. We have 
recourse to the scientifically-trained specialist in the laboratory. The 
merits of the Salk anti-polio vaccine were not established on the 
forensic platform or in newspaper editorials, but in the laboratory 
and by tests in the field on thousands of children.   Our presidential 
campaigns provide much debate and argument. But is the result 
new barnsful of tested knowledge on the basis of which we can with confidence 
solve our domestic and international problems? Man, we are 
told, is endowed with reason and is capable of distinguishing good from 
bad. But what a super-Herculean task it is to winnow anything of value 
from the mud-beplastered arguments used so freely, particularly since 
such common use is made of cliches and stereotypes, in themselves 
declarations of intellectual bankruptcy.   We are reminded, however, 
that freedom of thought and discussion, the unfettered exchange 
of ideas, is basic under our form of government.   Assuredly in 
our political campaigns there is freedom to think, to examine any and 
all issues, and to speak without restraint. No holds are barred. But 
have the results been heartening? May we state with confidence that 
in such an exhibition a republic will find its greatest security?

We must not forget, to be sure, that free discussion and debate 
have produced beneficial results. In truth, we can say that this broke 
the power of Senator Joseph McCarthy, who was finally exposed 
in full light to the American people. If he had been "liquidated" 
in some way, he would have become a martyr, a rallying point for people 
who shared his ideas. Debate in the political arena can be productive 
of good. But it is a clumsy and wasteful process: it can produce 
negative results but not much that is positive. Debate rid us of 
McCarthy but did not give us much that is positive. It did something 
to clear the ground, but it erected no striking new structure; it 
did not even provide the architect's plan for anything new. 
In the field of the natural sciences, scientifically verified data are 
quite readily available and any discussion can be shortened with good 
results. In the field of the social sciences a considerable fund of 
tested knowledge has been accumulated that can be used to good advantage.

By no means would we discourage the production of ideas: 
they provide raw materials with which to work; they provide stimulations 
that lead to further production. We would establish no censorship. 
The President's personality would have opened that office to him. 
And for the first time a representative of the highest office in the 
land would have been liable to the charge that he had attempted to make 
it a successorship by inheritance. It is testimony to the deep respect 
in which Mr& Eisenhower was held by members of all parties that 
the moral considerations raised by his approach to the matter were 
not explicitly to be broached.   These began to be apparent in a 
press conference held during the second illness in order that the consulting 
specialists might clarify the President's condition for the 
nation. And if Howard Rutstein felt impelled thereafter to formulate 
the ethics of the medical profession, his article in the <Atlantic 
Monthly> accomplished a good deal more. It forced us to fix the responsibility 
for the position in which all medical commentators had been 
placed. The discussion of professional ethics inevitably reminded 
us that in the historical perspective the President's decision will 
finally clarify itself as a moral, rather than a medical, problem. Because 
the responsibility for resolving the issue lay with the President, 
rather than with his doctors, nothing raises more surely for us 
the difficulties simple goodness faces in dealing with complex moral problems 
under political pressure. For the President had dealt with the 
matter humbly, in what he conceived as the democratic way. But the 
problem is one which gives us the measure of a man, rather than a group 
of men, whether a group of doctors, a group of party members assembled 
at a dinner to give their opinion, or the masses of the voters.

Any attempt to reconcile this statement of the central issue in 
the campaign of 1956 with the nature of the man who could not conceive 
it as the central issue will at least resolve our confusions about the 
chaotic and misleading results of the earnestness of both doctors and 
President in a situation which should never have arisen. It was a 
response to the conflict between political pressure and the moral intuition 
which resulted in attempts at prediction. In no other situation 
would a group of doctors, struggling competently to improve the life 
expectancy of a man beloved by the world, be subjected to such merciless 
and persistent questioning, and before they were prepared to demonstrate 
the kind of verbal precision which alone can clarify for mankind 
the problems it faces. And though we can look back now and see their 
errors, we can look back also to the ultimate error.   It recurred 
in the press conferences: the President's remarks about his running 
developed a singular tone, one which we find in few statements 
made by public individuals on such a matter. The press conference became 
a stage which betrayed the drift of his private thinking, rather than 
his convictions. He commented- thoughtfully, a reporter told us- 
that it was "not too important for the individual how he ends up". 
He gave us a simile to explain his admission that even at the worst 
period of his second illness it never occurred to him there was any 
renewed question about his running: as in the Battle of the Bulge, 
he had no fears about the outcome until he read the American newspapers. 
Yet the attitude that the fate of the Presidency demands in such 
a situation is quite distinct from the simple courage that can proceed 
with battles to be fought, regardless of the consequences. In this 
case others should not have had to raise the doubts and fears. The 
Presidency demands an incisive awareness of the larger implications 
of the death of any incumbent. It is of the utmost importance to the 
people of America and of the world how their governing President "ends 
up" during the four years of his term. Only when that term is 
ended and he is a private citizen again can he be permitted the freedom 
and the courage to discount the dangers of his death. Ironically enough, 
in this instance such personal virtues were a luxury.   At 
the national and international level, then, what is the highest kind 
of morality for the private citizen represents an instance of political 
immorality. And we had the uneasy sense that the cleavage between the 
moral and the political progressed amid the events which concern us. 
For the tone of the editorials which greeted Mr& Eisenhower's 
original announcement of his running had been strangely disquieting. 
Neither the vibrant enthusiasm which bespeaks a people's intuitive 
sense of the fitness of things at climactic moments nor the vital argumentation 
betraying its sense that something significant has transpired 
was in evidence. Nothing testifies more clearly to that cleavage than 
the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of <Life Magazine>, 
the issue which also carried the second announcement of the 
candidacy. The double editorial on two aspects of "The U& S& 
Spirit" was subtly calculated to suggest a moral sanction for gambles 
great as well as small, reflecting popular approval of this questionable 
attitude toward the highest office in the land. "The Moral 
Creed" and "The Will to Risk" live happily together, if we 
do not examine where the line is to be drawn. "I may possibly be a 
greater risk than is the normal person of my age", the President had 
said on February 29th of the election year, ignoring the fact that 
no one of his age had ever lived out another term. "My doctors assure 
me that this increased percentage of risk is not great". But by 
the time the risk was doubled, events had dismissed from his mind both 
increased percentages and a previously stated intention of considering 
carefully anything more serious than a bout of influenza. Only infrequently 
did the situation color his thinking. Ironically no president 
we have had would have regretted more than President Eisenhower the 
possibility to which his own words, in the press conference held at 
the beginning of August, testified: that unable as he was himself 
to say his running was best for the country, unconsciously he had placed 
his party before his nation.   So it is that we relive his opening 
statement in the first television address with the dramatic immediacy 
of the present. No consideration of risk urges itself upon him 
now: for this is what the mind does with the ideas on which it has not 
properly focussed. Yet with a mind less shallow, if less sharp, than 
some of the fortune-happy syndicates which back him, he feels what 
he cannot formulate; and we watch him amid the overtones which suggest 
he could never in any conscience urge a risk upon the voters. Moving 
as he is into the phase of the campaign which demands conviction of 
him, he adopts a position that is morally indefensible. He ascribes 
to the mercy of God the peace which this personal matter- the assurance 
that he can physically sustain the burden of the office longer 
than any individual in the history of our nation has been able to do- 
has brought him. What is simply an opinion formed in defiance of the 
laws of human probability, whether or not it is later confirmed, has 
become by September of the election year "a firm conviction". 
As 
a means of silencing a discussion which ought to have taken place, the 
statement is an effective one: we sympathize with the universal confusion 
which gives rise to such convictions. But it is also the climax 
to one of the absorbing chapters in our current political history.

In assigning to God the responsibility which he learned could 
not rest with his doctors, Eisenhower gave evidence of that weakening 
of the moral intuition which was to characterize his administration 
in the years to follow. In any other man this reassurance to the electorate 
would have caused us a profound moral shock. About this man we 
had to think twice. We knew that it was, as reassurance, the ironic 
fruit of a deeply moral nature. But the fact remains that even the unconscious 
acceptance of himself as a man of destiny divinely protected 
must be censored in any man who evades the responsibility for his major 
decisions, and thus for imposing his will on the people. And in the 
context of drifting personal utterances we have examined, there was 
occasional evidence of the origin of all such evasions. When the possibility 
that he had not given reconsideration to so weighty a decision 
seemed 
to disconcert his questioners, Mr& Eisenhower was known to 
make his characteristic statement to the press that he was not going 
to talk about the matter any more. Thinking had stopped; it was not 
to be resumed.   The portrait that had developed, fragmentarily 
but consistently, was the portrait of a man to whom serious thinking 
is alien enough that the making of a decision inhibits, when it does not 
forestall, any ability to review the decision in the light of new evidence. 
This does not mean that the decision to run for office should 
inevitably have been revoked. Instead it means that the thinking in 
which decision issues has the power to determine the morality of the 
decision, as in this instance the pressure for renewed practical or legislative 
attention to the constitutional problems the decision had uncovered 
might have done. Drifting through a third illness, apparently 
without any provision for the handling of a major national emergency 
other than a talk with the vice-president, Eisenhower revealed the singularly 
static quality of his thinking. Despite three warnings, no 
sense of moral urgency impelled him to distinguish his situation, and 
thus his responsibilities, from Wilson's. ##

By contrast, the 
energetic reaction of the leader to the full demands his decision imposes 
upon him strengthens the moral intuition and gives us the measure 
of the man. Only by means of an intensive preoccupation with the detailed 
considerations following from any decision can he ensure attention 
to the practical details to be dealt with if the implications of immorality 
in the major decision are effectively to be checked. In the 
incessant struggle with recalcitrant political fact he learns to focus 
the essence of a problem in the significant detail, and to articulate 
the distinctions which clarify the detail as significant, with what 
is sometimes astounding rapidity. Like Lincoln, he can distinguish 
his relation to God from the constitutional responsibilities a questionable 
decision exacts of him. Like Roosevelt, he can distinguish an 
attitude toward a Russian leader he may share with a host of Americans 
from the responsibilities diplomatic convention may impose upon him. 
He chooses to subordinate one to the other, sometimes reluctantly, 
accepting criticism for the lesser immoralities facts breed. The very 
nature of a choice so grounded in distinction and fact leads to the 
valid convictions which become force of will in the manifest leader. 
The capacity for making the distinctions of which diplomacy is compact, 
and the facility with language which can render them into validity 
in the eyes of other men are the leader's means for transforming the 
moral intuition into moral leadership.   The making of distinctions, 
like the perception of the great distinctions made, is an inordinately 
difficult business. Lincoln's slow progress towards the several 
marking his achievement is even now unrecognizable as such, and loosely 
interpreted as the alternation of inconsistency with vision. But 
because it is the function of the mind to turn the one into the other 
by means of the capacities with which words endow it, we do not unwisely 
examine the type of distinction, in the sphere of politics, on which 
decisions hang. Only recently, and perhaps because a television debate 
can so effectively dramatize President Kennedy's extraordinary 
mastery of detail, have the abilities on which the capacity for making 
distinctions depend begun to be clearly discernible at the level of 
politics. 
In his recent evaluation of Kennedy's potentialities for 
leadership, Walter Lippmann has cited the "precision" of his mind, 
his "immense command" of factual detail, and his "instinct for 
the crucial point" as impressive in the extreme; and it is surely 
clear that the first of these is the result of the way in which the 
individual's command of language interacts with the other two. 
For this change is not a change from one positive position to another, 
but a change from order and truth to disorder and negation. The 
liberal-conservative 
division, we might observe in passing, is not of itself 
directly involved in a private interest conflict nor even in struggle 
between ruling groups. Rather it is rooted in a difference of response 
to the threat of social disintegration. The division is not between 
those who wish to preserve what they have and those who want change. 
Rather it is a division established by two absolutely different ways 
of thought with regard to man's life in society. These ways are 
absolutely irreconcilable because they offer two different recipes for 
man's redemption from chaos.   The civilizational crisis, the 
third type of change raises the question "what are we to do"? 
on the most primitive level. For the answer cannot be derived from any 
socially cohesive element in the disrupting community. There is no 
socially existential answer to the question. For the truth formerly experienced 
by the community no longer has existential status in the community, 
nor does any answer elaborated by philosophers or theoriticians. 
In this phase of change, no idea has social acceptance and so none 
has ontological status in the community. An interregnum ensues in which 
not men but ideas compete for existence.   If we examine the 
three types of change from the point of view of their internal structure 
we find an additional profound difference between the third and the 
first two, one that accounts for the notable difference between the 
responses they evoke. The first two types of change occur within the 
inward and immanent structure of the society. The first involves a simple 
shift of interests in the society. The second involves something 
deeper, but its characteristic form focuses on a shift in policy for 
the community, not in the truth on which the community rests. Thus in 
both types attention is focused on the community itself, and its phenomenological 
life. The third type, however, wrenches attention from 
the life of action and interests in the community and focuses it on the 
ground of being on which the community depends for its existence. Voegelin 
has analyzed this experience in the case of the stable, healthy 
community. There the community, faced with the need to formulate policy 
on the level of absolute justice, can find the answer to its problem 
in the absolute truth which it holds as partially experienced. This, 
however, cannot be done by a community whose very experience of truth 
is confused and incoherent: it has no absolute standard, and consequently 
cannot distinguish the absolute from the contingent. It has 
lost its ground of being and floats in a mist of appearances. Relativism 
and equality are its characteristic diseases. Precisely at the moment 
when it has lost its vision the mind of the community turns out 
from itself in a search for the ontological standard whereby it can measure 
itself. For paradigmatic history "breaks" rather than unfolds 
precisely when the movement is from order to disorder, and not from 
one order to a new order. The liberal-conservative split, to define 
it further, derives from a basic difference concerning the existential 
status of standard sought and about the spiritual experience that leads 
to its identification.   When disruptive change has penetrated 
to the third level of social order, the process of disruption rapidly 
reaches a point of no return. Indeed, it is probable that this point 
is reached the moment the third level of change begins. At that point 
we reach the "closed" historical situation: the situation in 
which man is no longer free to return to a <status quo ante>. At that 
point men become aware of the mystery of history called variously "fate", 
or "destiny", or "providence", and feel themselves 
caught helplessly in the writhing of a disrupted society. The reasons 
for this experience are rooted in the metaphysical characteristics of 
such a change.   Of all forms of being, society, or community, 
has the greatest element of determinability. Its ontological status is 
itself most tenuous because apart from individual men, who are its "matter", 
tradition, the "form" of society exists only as a shared 
perception of truth. The ontological status of society thus is constituted 
by the psychological-intellectual-volitional status of society's 
members. The content of that psychological status determines, 
ultimately, the content of civilization. Those social, civilizational 
factors not rooted in the human spirit of the group, ultimately cease 
to exist. Civilization itself- tradition- falls out of existence 
when the human spirit itself becomes confused. Civilization is what 
man has made of himself. Its massive contours are rooted in the simple 
need of man, since he is always incomplete, to complete himself.

It is not enough for man to be an ontological esse. He needs existential 
completion, he needs, that is, to move in the direction of completion. 
And the direction of that movement is determined by his perception 
of the truth about himself. He must, consequently, exist as a 
self-perceived substantive, developing agent, or he does not exist as 
man. Thus, it is no mystical intuition, but an analyzable conception 
to say that man and his tradition can "fall out of existence". This 
happens at the moment man loses the perception of moral substance 
in himself, of a nature that, in Maritain's words, is perceived as 
a "locus of intelligible necessities". An existentialist is a man 
who perceives himself only as "esse", as existence without substance.

Thus human perception and human volition is the immanent 
cause of all social change and this most truly when the change reaches 
the civilizational level. Thus with regard to the loss of tradition, 
in the change from order to disorder the metaphysics of change works 
itself out as a disruption of the individual soul, a change in which man 
continues as an objective ontological existent, but no longer as a 
man.   Further, change is a form of motion, it occurs as the act 
of a being in potency insofar as it is in potency and has not yet reached 
the terminus of the change. With regard to the change we are examining, 
the question is, at what point does the change become irreversible? 
A number of considerations suggest that this occurs early in 
the process. Change involves the displacement of form. This means that 
the inception of change itself can begin only when the factors conducive 
to change have already become more powerful than those anchoring 
the existent form in being. If the existent form is to be retained new 
factors that reinforce it must be introduced into the situation. In 
the case of social decay, form is displaced simply by the process of 
dissolution with no form at the terminus of the process. Now in the 
mere fact of the beginning of such displacement we have prima-facie evidence 
of the ontological weakness of the fading form. And when we consider 
the tenuous hold tradition has on existence, any weakening of that 
hold constitutes a crisis of existence. The retention of a tradition 
confronted with such a crisis necessitates the introduction of new 
spiritual forces into the situation. However, the crisis occurs precisely 
as a weakening of spiritual forces. It would seem, therefore, that 
in a civilizational crisis man cannot save himself. The emergence 
of the crisis itself would seem to constitute a warranty for the victory 
of disorder. And it would seem that history is a witness to this 
truth.   As a further characterization of the liberal conservative 
split we may observe that it involves differences in the formula for 
escaping inevitabilities in history. These differences, in turn, derive 
from prior differences concerning the friendly or hostile character 
of change. 

#UNANALYZED RESPONSES#

ANXIETY AND DEEP INSECURITY 
are the characteristic responses evoked by the crisis in tradition. 
To experience them, it is not necessary for a people to be actively 
aware of what is happening to it. The process of erosion need only 
undermine the tradition and a series of consequences begin unfolding 
within the individual, while in institutions a quiet but deep transformation 
of processes occurs. Within the individual the reaction has been 
called various names, all, however, pointing to the same basic experience. 
Weil identifies it as being "rootless", Guardini as being 
"placeless", Riesman as being "lonely". Others call it "alienation", 
and mean by that no simple economic experience (as Marx 
does) but a deep spiritual sense of dislocation. Within institutions 
there is a marked decline of the process of persuasion and the substitution 
of a force-fear process which masquerades as the earlier one 
of persuasion. We note the use of rhetoric as a weapon, the manipulation 
of the masses by propaganda, the "mobilization" of effort and 
resources.   Within this context of spontaneous and unanalyzed 
responses to the experience of civilizational crisis, two basic organizations 
of response are observable: reaction and ideological progressivism. 
These responses are explicable in terms of characteristics inherent 
in the crisis. Both are predictably destined to fail.   The 
response of reaction is dominated by a concern for what is vanishing. 
Its essence lies in its attempt to recover previous order through 
the repression of disruptive forces. To this end political authority 
is called upon to exercise its negative and coercive powers. The implicit 
assumption of this response is that history is reversible. Seemingly, 
order is perceived as a kind of subsistent entity now covered by 
adventitious accretions. The problem is to remove the accretions and 
thereby uncover the order that was always there. Such a response, of 
course, misses the point that in crisis order is going out of existence. 
Moreover its posture of stubborn but simple resistance is doomed 
to failure because of the metaphysical weakness of the existent form of 
order, once the activation of change has reached visible proportions. 
The most reaction can achieve is stasis, and a stasis that can be maintained 
only by the expenditure of an effort which ultimately exhausts 
itself.   Despite the hopelessness of the response, it is explicable 
in terms of the crisis of tradition itself. Since a civilizational 
crisis involves also a crisis in private interests and in the ruling 
class, reaction is normally found among those who feel themselves 
to be among the ruling class. Their great error is to mingle the responses 
typical of each of the three types of change. Since civilizational 
change is the most difficult to perceive and analyze, it seldom is 
given adequate attention. And the anxiety it generates is misinterpreted 
as anxiety over private interest and threatened social status.

The basic truth in the reactionary response is to be found in its 
realistic assumption of the primacy of the real over the ideational. 
But this truth is distorted by its extreme application: the assumption 
of the separate existence of tradition. The reactionary misses 
the point that tradition exists ontologically only in the form of 
psychological-intellectual 
relations. Reactionary theories, for this reason, 
usually assume some form of organismic theory. In its defensive 
formulations, the theory will attack conscious change on the grounds of 
the independent existence of the community. In its dynamic form, it 
visualizes the community as the embodiment of an ontological force- 
the race, for instance, which unfolds in history. In both cases the 
individual tends to be treated as an instrument of the organic reality.

When the reactionary response is thus bolstered by an intellectual 
defense, the characteristics of that defense are explicable only 
in terms of the basic attitudes of unanalyzed reaction. Reaction is 
rooted in a perception of tradition as a whole. It is a total situation 
that is defended: the "good old days". There is no selectivity; 
even the questionable features of the past are defended. The point 
is that the reactionary, for whatever motive, perceives himself to 
have been part or a partner of something that extended beyond himself, 
something which, consequently, he was not able to accept or reject 
on the basis of subjective preference. The reactionary is confused about 
the existential status of a decaying tradition, but he does perceive 
the unity tradition had when it was healthy.

All of which brings up another problem in the use of psychoanalytic 
insight in a literary work. Is the Oedipus complex, the clinical 
syndrome, material for a tragedy? If we remove ourselves for a moment 
from our time and our infatuation with mental disease, isn't there 
something absurd about a hero in a novel who is defeated by his infantile 
neurosis? I am not making a clinical judgment here, for such 
personal tragedies are real and are commonplace in the analyst's 
consulting room, but literature makes a different claim upon our sympathies 
than tragedy in life. A man in a novel who is defeated in his childhood 
and condemned by unconscious forces within him to tiredly repeat 
his earliest failure in love, only makes us a little weary of man; 
his tragedy seems unworthy and trivial.   Now we can argue that 
the irresistible fate of Oedipus Rex was nothing more than the irresistible 
unconscious longings of Oedipus projected outward, but this 
externalization of unconscious conflict makes all the difference between 
a story and a clinical case history. We can also argue that the 
three brothers Karamazov and Smerdyakov were the external representatives 
of an internal conflict within one man, Dostoevsky, a conflict 
having to 
do with father-murder and the wish to possess the father's woman. But 
a novel in which one man Karamazov explored the divisions within 
his personality would scarcely merit publication in the <Psychoanalytic 
Quarterly>.   It is a mistake to look upon the Oedipus of 
Oedipus Complex as a literary descendant of Oedipus Rex. Whatever 
the psychological truth in the Oedipus myth, an Oedipus who is drawn 
to his fate by irresistible external forces can carry the symbol of 
humanity and its archaic crime, and the incest that is unknowing renews 
the mystery of the eternal dream of childhood and absorbs us in the 
secret. But a modern Oedipus who is doomed because he cannot oppose 
his own childhood is only pathetic, and for renouncing the mystery 
in favor of psychological truth he gives up the claim on our sympathies.

I am suggesting that a case-history approach to the Oedipus 
complex is a blind alley for a storyteller. The best gifts of the novelist 
will be wasted on the reader who is insulated against any surprises 
the novelist may have in store for him. Incest is still a durable 
theme, but if it wants to get written about it will have to find ways 
to surprise the emotions, and there is no better way to do this than 
that of concealment and symbolic representation. And the best way to 
conceal and disguise the elements of an incest story is not to set out 
to write an incest story. Which brings to mind another Lawrence story 
and some interesting comparisons in the treatment of the Oedipal 
theme.   "The Rocking Horse Winner" is also a story about 
a boy's love for his mother. If I now risk some comparisons with 
<Sons and Lovers> let it be clear that I am not comparing the two 
works or judging their merits; I am only singling out differences 
in treatment of a theme and the resultant effects. "The Rocking Horse 
Winner" is a fantasy with extraordinary power to disturb the 
reader- but we do not know why. It is the story of the hopeless love 
of a little boy for his cold and vain mother. There are ghostly scenes 
in which the little boy on his rocking horse rocks madly toward the 
climax that will magically give him the name of the winning horse. The 
child grows rich on his winnings and conspires with his uncle to make 
secret gifts of his money to his mother. The story ends in the child's 
illness and delirium brought on by the feverish compulsion to 
ride his horse to win for his mother. The child dies with his mourning 
mother at his bedside.   I had read the story many times without 
asking myself why it affected me or caring why it did. But on one 
occasion when I encountered a similar fantasy in a little boy who was 
my patient I began to understand the uncanny effects of this story. 
It was, of course, a little boy's fantasy of winning his mother to 
himself, and replacing the father who could not give her the things she 
wanted- a classical oedipal fantasy if you like- but if it were 
only this the story would be banal. Why does the story affect us? How 
does the rocking exert its uncanny effect upon the reader? The 
rocking is actually felt in the story, a terrible and ominous rhythm that 
prophesies the tragedy. The rocking, I realized, is the single element 
in the story that carries the erotic message, the unspoken and 
unconscious undercurrent that would mar the innocence of a child's fantasy 
and disturb the effects of the work if it were made explicit. The 
rocking has the ambiguous function of keeping the erotic undercurrent 
silent and making it present; it conceals and yet is suggestive; 
a perfect symbol. And if we understand the rocking as an erotic symbol 
we can also see how well it serves as the symbol of impending tragedy. 
For this love of the boy for his mother is a hopeless and forbidden 
love, doomed by its nature.   We are also struck by the fact 
that this story of a boy's love for his mother does not offend, while 
the incestuous love of the man, Paul Morel, sometimes repels. It's 
easy to see why. This love belongs to childhood; we accord it 
its place there, and in Lawrence's treatment we are given the innocent 
fantasy of a child, in fact, the form in which oedipal love is expressed 
in childhood. And when the child dies in Lawrence's story 
in a delirium that is somehow brought on by his mania to win and to make 
his mother rich, the manifest absurdity of such a disease and such 
a death does not enter into our thoughts at all. We have so completely 
entered the child's fantasy that his illness and his death are the 
plausible and the necessary conclusion.   I am sure that none 
of the effects of this story were consciously employed by Lawrence to 
describe an oedipal fantasy in childhood. It is most probable that 
Freud and the Oedipus complex never entered his head in the writing 
of this story. He was simply writing a story that wanted to be told, 
and in the writing a childhood fantasy of his own emerged. He would not 
have cared why it emerged, he only wanted to capture a memory to play 
with it again in his imagination and somehow to fix and hold in the 
story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy.   In 
our own time we have seen that the novelist's debt to psychoanalysis 
has increased but that the novel itself has not profited much from 
this marriage. Ortega's hope that modern psychology might yet bring 
forth a last flowering of the novel has only been partially fulfilled. 
The young writer seems intimidated by psychological knowledge; he 
has lost confidence in his own eyes and in the validity of his own psychological 
insights. He borrows the insights of psychology to improve 
his impaired vision but cannot bring to his work the distinctive vision 
that should be a novelist's own. He has been seduced by the marvels 
of the unconscious and has lost interest in studying the surfaces 
of character. If many of the characters in contemporary novels appear 
to be the bloodless relations of characters in a case history it is 
because the novelist is often forgetful today that those things that 
we call character manifest themselves in surface behavior, that the ego 
is still the executive agency of personality, and that all we know of 
personality must be discerned through the ego. The novelist who has 
been badly baptized in psychoanalysis often gives us the impression that 
since all men must have an Oedipus complex all men must have the 
same faces. #/2,.#

I have argued that Oedipus of the Oedipus 
complex has a doubtful future as a tragic figure in literature. But a 
writer who has a taste for irony and who sees incest in all its modern 
dimensions can let his imagination work on the disturbing joke in the 
incest myth, the joke that strikes right at the center of man's humanness. 
Moral dread is seen as the other face of desire, and here psychoanalysis 
delivers to the writer a magnificent irony and a moral problem 
of great complexity.   There is probably some significance 
in the fact that two of the best incest stories I have encountered 
in recent years are burlesques of the incest myth. The ancient types 
are reassembled in gloom and foreboding to be irresistibly drawn to their 
destinies, but the myth fails before the modern truth; the oracle 
speaks false and the dream speaks true. In both the farmer's tale 
in Ralph Ellison's <Invisible Man> and in Thomas Mann's <The 
Holy Sinner>, the incest hero rises above the myth by accepting 
the wish as motive; the heroic act is the casting off of pretense.

Thomas Mann wrote <The Holy Sinner> in 1951. It was conceived 
as a leave-taking, a kind of melancholy gathering-in of the myths 
of the West, "<bevor die Nacht sinkt, eine lange Nacht vielleicht 
und ein tiefes Vergessen>". He chose a medieval legend of 
incest, Gregorius vom Stein, and freely borrowed and parodied other 
myths of the West, mixing themes, language, peoples and times in a master 
myth in which the old forms continually renew themselves, as in his 
previous treatment of Joseph.   But <The Holy Sinner> is 
not simply a retelling of old stories for an old man's entertainment. 
Mann understood better than most men the incest comedy at the center 
of the myth and the psychological truth in which dread is shown as 
the other face as longing was for him just the kind of deep and complicated 
joke he liked to tell. And when he retold the legend of Gregorius 
he interpolated a modern version in which the medieval players speak 
contemporary thoughts in archaic language; while they move through 
the pageantry of the ancient incest myth and cover themselves through 
not-knowing, they reveal the unconscious motive in seeking each other 
and in the last scene make an extraordinary confession of guilt in the 
twentieth-century manner.   Grigorss is the child of an incestuous 
union between a royal brother and sister, the twins Sibylla and 
Wiligis. He is born in secrecy after the death of his father and cast 
adrift soon after birth. The infant is discovered by a fisherman who 
brings him home to rear him. An ivory tablet in the infant's cask 
recounts the story of his sinful origins and is preserved for the child 
by the monks of a monastery in the fishing village. Grigorss, at 
seventeen, learns his story and goes forth as a knight to uncover his 
origins. His sailing vessel is guided by fate to the shores of his own 
country at a time when Sibylla's domain is overrun by the armies 
of one of her rejected suitors. Grigorss overcomes the suitor in battle, 
delivers the city from its oppressors and marries Sibylla who had 
fallen in love with the beautiful knight the moment she saw him.

Sibylla is pregnant with their second child when she finds the ivory 
tablet concealed by her husband, and the identities of mother and son 
are revealed. Grigorss goes off to do penance on a rock for seventeen 
years. At the end of this period two pious Christians in Rome receive 
the revelation which leads them to seek the next Pope on the rock. 
Grigorss comes to Rome and becomes a great and beloved Pope. In 
the last pages of the book Sibylla comes to Rome to seek an audience 
with the great Pope and to give her confession. Mother and son recognize 
each other and, in Mann's version of this legend, make a remarkable 
confession of guilt to each other, the confession of unconscious 
motive and unconscious knowledge of their true identities from the 
time they had first set eyes on each other. 
In recollection he has said: "Natural or man-made objects kept coming 
into my head, but I would suppress them sternly". Moreover, 
he organized the movement of his forms, within his rigorously shaped space, 
into highly complex equilibriums; and used gradations of color 
value as well as sharply contrasting elementary colors.   The worthy 
Mondrian, seeing these pictures, said in a tone of kindly reproof: 
"But you are really an artist of the naturalistic tradition"! 
Helion did not realize it at the time, but it was true.   His 
"monumental" abstraction, made up of smooth, metallic "non-objects" 
acting upon each other with great tension, won Helion much 
acclaim during the 'thirties. The play of novel lighting effects also 
entered into these compositions, whose controlled power and varied 
activity made them well worth meditating.   As Helion's work 
showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature, the pure 
abstractionists expressed some disapproval; but Leger, Arp, Lipchitz 
and Alexander Calder, at the time, gave him their blessing. His 
canvases nowadays bore titles frankly declaring them to be "Figures 
in Space", or "Blue Figure", or "Pink Figure"; and 
they had (vaguely) heads and feet. Exhibited in shows in London in 
1935, and in New York the following year, the new, more elaborated 
abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional 
dramas of great intellectual coherence. At this period 
the thirty-year old Helion was ranked "as one of the mature leaders 
of the modern movement", according to Herbert Read, "and in the 
direct line of descent from Cezanne, Seurat, Gris and Leger". In 
America, Meyer Schapiro observed that, unlike the Mondrian school, 
Helion "sought a return path to the fullness of nature within the 
framework of abstract art".   It is notable that at this time 
he was writing with admiration of Cimabue's and Poussin's way 
of filling space. Abstract art was still the right path for him; but, 
he 
held, instead of continuing as an "art of reduction", it must grow, 
must make a place for the contributions of the Raphaels and Poussins 
as well as for those of the early cubists and Mondrian.   Later 
Helion wrote of this phase: "For years I built for myself 
a subtle instrument of relationships- colors and forms without a name. 
I played on it my secret songs, unexplained, passionate and peaceful".

But his own work was evolving further. The extreme limitations 
he sensed in all current abstract art made that seem to him increasingly 
arid and cold. He was engaged in constant experiments that 
searched for new directions. Where would it all lead? He himself 
did not know, as he said in 1935. But he was "afraid of the future- 
he would in fact welcome a way back to social integration, a functional 
art of some kind".   During the 1920's the Abstractionists, 
the German Bauhaus group of industrial designers, and the new 
architects all had the dream of some well ordered utopia, or welfare 
state, in which their neat and logical constructions might find their 
proper place. But whereas the postwar American abstractionists seem 
to Helion to be determined to "escape" from the real world, or simply 
to rebel against it, the <ordered> abstractions which he and his 
associates of the 1930's were painting embodied the hope of "improving" 
things. "We were possessed by visions of a new civilization 
to come, very pure and elevated", he has said, "in fact some ideal 
form of socialism such as we had dreamed of since the war of 1914-1918".

Instead of this the 1930's witnessed a tragic economic 
depression, the rise of Fascist dictators in Europe, the wasting 
Civil War in Spain. Very much the political man, Helion felt himself 
deeply affected by the increasingly pessimistic atmosphere of France 
and all Europe, whose foundations seemed to him more and more shaky. 
In 1936 he decided to migrate to America. The Rooseveltian America 
was a haven of liberalism and progress and seemed to him to constitute 
the last best hope for civilization. Helion also hoped that 
America's mastery of technology and industrial efficiency would be 
accompanied by the production of new and beautiful art works. "I arrived 
in the United States with the idea of establishing myself there 
more or less permanently and finding inspiration for new compositions".

In New York he was well received by what was then only 
a small brave band of non-figurative artists, including Alexander Calder, 
George K& L& Morris, De Kooning, Holty and a few others. 
After a year in a studio on Sheridan Square, having married an 
American girl who was a native of Virginia, Helion moved to a village 
in the Blue Ridge mountains, where he produced some of the most 
imposing of his abstract canvases.   The darkening world scene, 
at the time of the Munich Pact, continued to trouble his mind even in 
his remote Virginia studio. "Fear possessed me, and the certainty 
of war", he has related. "I truly smelled blood, death, heaps of 
corpses everywhere". In haste he labored to finish some last abstract 
paintings: a three-panel frieze, with a flying figure and a fallen 
figure; a "Double-Figure", which went to the Chicago Art 
Institute, and is considered by him the most successful of his abstracts; 
and in early 1939, a "Fallen Figure" of very ominous character, 
which concluded his abstract phase. "I knew I was carrying 
on with abstraction to its very end- for me", he said of the two 
years' output in Virginia. With those paintings of big constructions 
crashing down, he felt he could stop. They were, in effect his last 
testament to non-objective art.   He had taken out first papers 
for American citizenship; but after war came to Europe, he decided 
to return to France, arriving there in January, 1940. "I hated 
the war", he said, "but thought I ought to go because I was, perhaps, 
one of those who hadn't done enough to prevent it". ## 

In June, 1940, Sergeant Helion, with a company of reserve troops waiting 
to go into battle, was sketching the hills south of the Loire 
River, when the war suddenly rolled in upon him. Its first apparition 
was a long, gloomy column of refugees riding in farm wagons, or pushing 
prams. His company then carried out a confused retreating movement 
until it was surrounded by the Germans, a few days before France capitulated. 
After a sort of death march during four days without food, 
Helion and his comrades were shipped by cattle-car to a labor camp 
at an estate farm in East Germany. A year later they were removed to 
a Stalag in the harbor of Stettin. At the time of his capture Helion 
had on his person a sketchbook he had bought at Woolworth's in 
New York. When he was stripped, deloused and numbered by his guards, 
his much-thumbed sketchbook was seized and thrown on a pile of prisoners' 
goods to be confiscated. "It was then I knew that they were 
making war against Man, the individual within!- who questioned 
things when given orders".   At Stettin the university-educated 
artist, who had studied German, was chosen to serve as interpreter 
and clerk in the office of the Stalag commander. In secret he also 
acted as a member of the prisoners' Central Committee, which plotted 
sabotage, planned a few escapes, and maintained a hidden control over 
the wretched French slave-laborers.   In the Stalag, Helion 
came to know and love his comrades, most of them plain folk, who, in 
their extremity, showed true courage and ran great risks to help each 
other. How much they esteemed him is shown by the fact that their underground 
committee selected him as one of the few who would be helped 
to escape. In the prison camp's Black Market civilian clothes were 
quietly bought and forged papers were devised for him; during long 
weeks the plan for his flight was rehearsed.   Every morning 
contingents of prisoners would be sent out to labor in nearby factories. 
One evening, while a volley-ball game was being played in the yard 
among the prisoners remaining there, a simulated melee was staged- 
just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from 
work. As Helion wrote afterward: "  Their sentry followed 
**h Four hands were stretched toward me by my comrades behind me. Marquet 
held my briefcase; Finot held a wallet with my money and papers; 
Moineau and David held nothing but their fingers **h They felt 
rough and kind and warm. At this moment the volley-ball hit the ground. 
Duclos ran toward Desprez with fists raised. The guards all 
rushed up to intervene **h"   Shedding his prison cloak, Helion 
shot through the gates, now clad in civilian garments and with the 
passport of a Flemish worker. Riding trains, hitching hikes on trucks 
across Germany, slipping through guarded frontiers with the help of 
secret guides, he eventually reached Vichy France, and, by the winter 
of 1943, was back in Virginia. He wrote: "  To escape from 
a prison camp required a very special state of mind; not only loathing 
of captivity, but a faith, a hope that is even stronger. I left 
behind me brave men, whom captivity had robbed of all hope. They too 
loved their families, longed for their villages: yet lacked the faith 
that drove one to dare **h the fearful chance of escape". 
It was a time of revelations for him. Even the most rational of men, 
under great stress, may be transported by a new faith and behave like 
mystics. Helion knew that he owed his freedom as much to the self-sacrifice 
of his fellow-men in Arbeitskommando /13,, Stettin, as to 
his own fierce 
will and love of life. After that, he declared, "to return to 
freedom was to fall to one's knees before the real world and adore 
it". In prison he had been able to sketch nothing but figures from 
life, his guards, his companions in misery. Now all his desires centered 
on "rediscovering and singing of the prosaic and yet beautiful 
world of men and objects so long barred from me by a barbed wire fence". 
And, he added: "During the many months in prison camp, all 
abstract images vanished from my mind".   Before leaving for America, 
he happened to see his old friend Jean Arp and confided to 
him his new resolutions. Arp protested: "But it is impossible! 
Everything in the way of representation has already been done by the 
old masters". Helion, however, clung to the belief that "in escaping 
from the Stalag I had also escaped from Abstraction".

While convalescing in his Virginia home he wrote a book recording 
his prison experiences and escape, entitled: <They Shall Not Have 
Me> **h Published originally in (Helion's) English by Dutton 
+ Co& of New York, in 1943, the book was received by the press 
as a work of astonishing literary power and one of the most realistic 
accounts of World War /2, from the French side. It was very widely 
read, too; and the author, who seemed the embodiment of France's 
rising spirit of resistance to her conquerors, was much complimented 
for his daring military action. But when he showed his new figurative 
pictures to his artist friends of the abstract camp, they paid him 
no compliments and drew long faces.   Between 1944 and 1947 Helion 
had a series of one-man shows- at the Paul Rosenberg Gallery 
in New York and in Paris- of his new realistic pictures. They reincarnated 
the figures of human beings banished from his canvases since 
the 1920's. These new pictures focussed on the familiar and commonplace 
objects that he had heard the men in his prison camp talking 
about as the things they missed most, hence associated with the sense 
of lost freedom: the cafe at the corner, the newspaper kiosk, the girls 
in doorways and windows along the street, the golden-crusted French 
bread they lacked, the cigarettes denied them. One of the pictures 
was of a man with hat drawn over his face ceremoniously lighting a cigarette; 
others were of men doffing their hats to each other, carrying 
umbrellas with pomp, reading newspapers, or simply showing loaves of 
bread spread out.

Important as was Mr& O'Donnell's essay, his thesis is 
so restricting as to deny Faulkner the stature which he obviously has. 
He and also Mr& Cowley and Mr& Warren have fallen to the temptation 
which besets many of us to read into our authors- Nathaniel 
Hawthorne, for example, and Herman Melville- protests against 
modernism, material progress, and science which are genuine protests of 
our own but may not have been theirs. Faulkner's total works today, 
and in fact those of his works which existed in 1946 when Mr& Cowley 
made his comment, or in 1939, when Mr& O'Donnell wrote his 
essay, reveal no such simple attitude toward the South. If he is a 
traditionalist, he is an eclectic traditionalist. If he condemns the 
recent or the present, he condemns the past with no less force. If he 
sees the heroic in a Sartoris or a Sutpen, he sees also- and he 
shows- the blind and the mean, and he sees the Compson family disintegrating 
from within. If the barn-burner's family produces a Flem 
Snopes, who personifies commercialism and materialism in hyperbolic 
crassness, the Compson family produces a Jason Compson /4,. Faulkner 
is a most untraditional traditionalist.   Others writing on 
Faulkner have found the phrase "traditional moralist" either inadequate 
or misleading. Among them are Frederick J& Hoffman, William 
Van O'Connor, and Mrs& Olga Vickery. They have indicated 
the direction but they have not been explicit enough, I believe, in 
pointing out Faulkner's independence, his questioning if not indeed 
challenging the Southern tradition. Faulkner's is not the mind 
of the apologist which Mr& O'Donnell implies that it is. He is 
not one to remain more comfortably and unquestioningly within a body 
of social, cultural, or literary traditions than he was within the traditions- 
or possibly the regulations- governing his tenure in the 
post office at Oxford, Mississippi, thirty-five years ago.   That 
is not to deny that he has been aware of traditions, of course, that 
he is steeped in them, in fact, or that he has dealt with them, in 
his books. It is to say rather, I believe, that he has brought to bear 
on the history, the traditions, and the lore of his region a critical, 
skeptical mind- the same mind which has made of him an inveterate 
experimenter in literary form and technique. He has employed from 
his section rich immediate materials which in a loose sense can be termed 
Southern. The fact that he has cast over those materials the light 
of a skeptical mind does not make him any the less Southern, I rather 
think, for the South has been no more solid than other regions except 
in the political and related areas where patronage and force and 
intimidation and fear may produce a surface uniformity. Some of us might 
be inclined to argue, in fact, that an independence of mind and action 
and an intolerance of regimentation, either mental or physical, 
are particularly Southern traits.   There is no necessity, I suppose, 
to assert that Mr& Faulkner is Southern. It would not be 
easy to discover a more thoroughly Southern pedigree than that of his 
family. And, after all, he has lived comfortably at both Oxford, Mississippi, 
and Charlottesville, Virginia. The young William Faulkner 
in New Orleans in the 1920's impressed the novelist Hamilton 
Basso as obviously conscious of being a Southerner, and there is no 
evidence that since then he has ever considered himself any less so. 
Besides showing no inclination, apparently, to absent himself from his 
native region even for short periods, and in addition writing a shelf 
of books set in the region, he has handled in those books an astonishingly 
complete list of matters which have been important in the South 
during the past hundred years.   It is more difficult with Faulkner 
than with most authors to say what is the extent and what is 
the source of his knowledge. His own testimony is that he has read very 
little in the history of the South, implying that what he knows of 
that history has come to him orally and that he knows the world around 
him primarily from his own unassisted observation. His denials of extensive 
reading notwithstanding, it is no doubt safe to assume that he 
has spent time schooling himself in Southern history and that he has 
gained some acquaintance with the chief literary authors who have lived 
in the South or have written about the South. To believe otherwise 
would be unrealistic.   But in looking at Faulkner against 
his background in Mississippi and the South, it is important not to 
lose the broader perspective. His earliest work reflected heavy influences 
from English and continental writers. Evidence is plentiful that 
early 
and later also he has been indebted to the Gothic romancers, 
who deal in extravagant horror, to the symbolists writing at the end 
of the preceding century, and in particular to the stream-of-consciousness 
novelists, Henry James and James Joyce among them. His repeated 
experimentation with the techniques of fiction testifies to an independence 
of mind and an originality of approach, but it also shows him 
touching at many points the stream of literary development back of him. 
My intention, therefore, is not to say that Faulkner's awareness 
has been confined within the borders of the South, but rather that 
he has looked at his world as a Southerner and that presumably his outlook 
is Southern.   The ingredients of Faulkner's novels and 
stories are by no means new with him, and most of the problems he takes 
up have had the attention of authors before him. A useful comment 
on his relation to his region may be made, I think, by noting briefly 
how in handling Southern materials and Southern problems he has deviated 
from the pattern set by other Southern authors while remaining 
faithful to the essential character of the region.   The planter 
aristocracy has appeared in literature at least since John Pendleton 
Kennedy published <Swallow-Barn> in 1832 and in his genial portrait 
of Frank Meriwether presiding over his plantation dominion initiated 
the most persistent tradition of Southern literature. The thoroughgoing 
idealization of the planter society did not come, however, 
until after the Civil War when Southern writers were eager to defend 
a way of life which had been destroyed. As they looked with nostalgia 
to a society which had been swept away, they were probably no more 
than half-conscious that they painted in colors which had never existed. 
Their books found no less willing readers outside than inside the 
South, even while memories of the war were still sharp. The tradition 
reached its apex, perhaps, in the works of Thomas Nelson Page toward 
the end of the century, and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 
in the best-selling novel <So Red the Rose>, by Stark Young. 
Although Faulkner was the heir in his own family to this tradition, 
he did not have Stark Young's inclination to romanticize and sentimentalize 
the planter society.   The myth of the Southern plantation 
has had only a tangential relation with actuality, as Francis 
Pendleton Gaines showed forty years ago, and I suspect it has had a 
far narrower acceptance as something real than has generally been supposed. 
Faulkner has found it useful, but he has employed it with his 
habitual independence of mind and skeptical outlook. Without saying or 
seeming to say that in portraying the Sartoris and the Compson families 
Faulkner's chief concern is social criticism, we can say nevertheless 
that through those families he dramatizes his comment on the 
planter dynasties as they have existed since the decades before the Civil 
War. It may be that in this comment he has broken from the conventional 
pattern more violently than in any other regard, for the treatment 
in his books is far removed from even the genial irony of Ellen 
Glasgow, who was the only important novelist before him to challenge 
the conventional picture of planter society.   Faulkner's low-class 
characters had but few counterparts in earlier Southern novels 
dealing with plantation life. They have an ancestry extending back, 
however, at least to 1728, when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders 
he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina. 
The chief literary antecedents of the Snopes clan appeared in the 
realistic, humorous writing which originated in the South and the 
Southwest in the three decades before the Civil War. These narratives 
of coarse action and crude language appeared first in local newspapers, 
as a rule, and later found their way between book covers, though 
rarely into the planters' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes 
of Horace, Mr& Addison, Mr& Pope, and Sir Walter Scott. 
There is evidence to suggest, in fact, that many authors of the humorous 
sketches were prompted to write them- or to make them as indelicate 
as they are- by way of protesting against the artificial refinements 
which had come to dominate the polite letters of the South. William 
Gilmore Simms, sturdy realist that he was, pleaded for a natural 
robustness such as he 
found in his favorites the great Elizabethans, 
to vivify the pale writings being produced around him. Simms admired 
the raucous tales emanating from the backwoods, but he had himself social 
affiliations which would not allow him to approve them fully. Augustus 
Baldwin Longstreet, a preacher and a college and university president 
in four Southern states, published the earliest of these backwoods 
sketches and in the character Ransy Sniffle, in the accounts of 
sharp horse-trading and eye-gouging physical combat, and in the shockingly 
unliterary speech of his characters, he set an example followed 
by many after him.   Others who wrote of low characters and low 
life included Thomas Bangs Thorpe, creator of the Big Bear of Arkansas 
and Tom Owen, the Bee-Hunter; Johnson Jones Hooper, whose 
character Simon Suggs bears a close kinship to Flem Snopes in 
both his willingness to take cruel advantage of all and sundry and the 
sharpness with which he habitually carried out his will; and George 
Washington Harris, whose Tennessee hillbilly character Sut Lovingood 
perpetrated more unmalicious mischief and more unintended pain 
than any other character in literature. It would be profitable, I believe, 
to read these realistic humorists alongside Faulkner's works, 
the thought being not that he necessarily read them and owed anything 
to them directly, but rather that they dealt a hundred years ago with 
a class of people and a type of life which have continued down to our 
time, to Faulkner's time. Such a comparison reminds us that in employing 
low characters in his works Faulkner is recording actuality 
in the South and moreover is following a long-established literary precedent. 
Such characters, with their low existence and often low morality, 
produce humorous effects in his novels and tales, as they did in 
the writing of Longstreet and Hooper and Harris, but it need not be 
added that he gives them far subtler and more intricate functions than 
they had in the earlier writers; nor is there need to add that among 
them are some of the most highly individualized and most successful 
of his characters.   One of the early humorists already mentioned, 
Thomas Bangs Thorpe, can be used to illustrate another point 
where Faulkner touches authentic Southern materials and also earlier 
literary treatment of those materials. Thorpe came to Louisiana from 
the East as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting 
of romantic adventure and idealized beauty. But Thorpe saw also 
the hardships of pioneer existence, the cultural poverty of the frontier 
settlements, and the slack morality which abounded in the new regions. 
As a consequence of the tensions thus produced in his thoughts and 
feelings, he wrote on the one hand sketches of idealized hunting trips 
and on the other an anecdote of the village of Hardscrabble, Arkansas, 
where no one had ever seen a piano; and he wrote also the masterpiece 
of frontier humor, "The Big Bear of Arkansas", in which 
earthy realism is placed alongside the exaggeration of the backwoods 
tall-tale and the awe with which man contemplates the grandeur and the 
mysteries of nature.

SOME years ago Julian Huxley proposed to an audience made 
up of members of the British Association for the Advancement of 
Science that "man's supernormal or extra-sensory faculties are [now] 
in the same case as were his mathematical faculties during the ice 
age". As a Humanist, Dr& Huxley interests himself in the possibilities 
of human development, and one thing we can say about this 
suggestion, which comes from a leading zoologist, is that, so far as he 
is concerned, the scientific outlook places no rigid limitation upon 
the idea of future human evolution.   This text from Dr& Huxley 
is sometimes used by enthusiasts to indicate that they have the permission 
of the scientists to press the case for a wonderful unfoldment 
of psychic powers in human beings. There may be a case of this sort, 
but it is not one we wish to argue, here. Even if people do, in a 
not far distant future, begin to read one another's minds, there will 
still be the question of whether what you find in another man's mind 
is especially worth reading- worth more, that is, than what you can 
read in good books. Even if men eventually find themselves able to 
look through walls and around corners, one may question whether this 
will help them to live better lives. There would be side-conclusions 
to be drawn, of course; such capacities are impressive evidence pointing 
to a conception of the human being which does not appear in the accounts 
of biologists and organic evolutionists; but the basic puzzles 
of existence would still be puzzling, and we should still have to work 
out the sort of problems we plan to discuss in this article.

All we want from Dr& Huxley's statement is the feeling that this 
is an open world, in the view of the best scientific opinion, with 
practically no directional commitments as to what may happen next, and 
no important confinements with respect to what may be possible.

It seems quite obvious that all the really difficult tasks of human 
beings arise from the fact that man is not one, but many. Each man, 
that is, is both one and many. He is a dreamer of the good society with 
a plan to put into effect, and he is an individual craftsman with 
something to make for himself and the people of his time. He is a parent 
with a child to nurture, here and now, and he is an educator who worries 
about the children half way round the world. He is a utopian with 
a stake in tomorrow and he is a vulnerable human made captive by the 
circumstances of today. He can sacrifice himself for tomorrow and 
he can sacrifice tomorrow for himself. He is a Craig's wife who agonizes 
about tobacco ash on the living room rug and he is a forgetful 
genius who goes boating with the town baker when dignitaries from the 
local university have come to call. He is the stern guardian of the status 
quo who has raised the utilitarian structures of the age, and he 
is the revolutionary poet with a gun in his hand who writes a tragic 
apologetic to posterity for the men he has killed.   What will be 
the final symmetry of the good society? For what do the utopians 
labor? Here, on a desk, is a stack of pamphlets representing the efforts 
of some of the best men of the day to penetrate these questions. 
The pamphlets are about law, the corporation, forms of government, the 
idea of freedom, the defense of liberty, the various lethargies which 
overtake our major institutions, the gap between traditional social 
ideals and the working mechanisms that have been set in motion for their 
realization. The thing that is notable in all these discussions is 
the lack of ideological ardor. There is another kind of ardor, a quiet, 
sure devotion to the fundamental decencies of human life, but no 
angry utopian contentions. Actually, you could wish for some passion, 
now and then, but when you look around the world and see the little volcanos 
of current history which partisan social passions have wrought, 
you are glad that in these pamphlets there is at least some civilized 
calm.   You could also say that in these pamphlets is a relieving 
quality of maturity. There is essential pleasantness in reading the 
writing of men who are not angry, who can contend without quarreling. 
This is the good kind of sophistication, and with all our problems 
and crises this kind of sophistication has flowered in the United States 
during recent years. A characteristic expression of such concern 
and inquiry is found in Joseph P& Lyford's introduction to <The 
Agreeable Autocracies,> a recent paperback study of the institutions 
of modern democratic society. Mr& Lyford gives voice to a temper 
that represents, we think, an achieved plateau of reflective thinking. 
After casting about for a way of describing this spirit, we decided 
that it would be better to use Mr& Lyford's introduction as 
an illustration. He begins: "  At one time it seemed as if 
the Soviet Union had done us a favor by providing a striking example 
of how not to behave towards other peoples and other nations. As 
things turned out, however, we have not profited greatly from the lesson: 
instead of persistently following a national program of our own 
we have often been satisfied to be against whatever Soviet policy seemed 
to be at the moment. Such activity may or may not have irritated 
the Kremlin, but it has frequently condemned America to an unnatural 
defensiveness that has undermined our effort to give leadership to the 
free world.   The defensiveness has been exaggerated by another 
bad habit, our tendency to rate the "goodness" or "badness" 
of other nations by the extent to which they applaud the slogans we circulate 
about ourselves. Since the slogans have little application to 
reality and are sanctimonious to boot, the applause is faint even in areas 
of the world where we should expect to find the greatest affection 
for free government. Shocked at the response to our proclamations, 
we grow more defensive, and worse, we lose our sense of humor and proportion. 
Mr& Nehru is subjected to stern lectures on neutralism by 
our Department of State, and an American President observes sourly 
that Sweden would be a little less neurotic if it were a little more 
capitalistic".   One thing you can say about Mr& Lyford is 
that he does not suffer from any insecurity as an American. Those 
who are insecure fear to be candid in self-examination. Only the strong 
look squarely at weakness. The maturity in this point of view lies 
in its recognition that no basic problem is ever solved without being 
clearly understood. Mr& Lyford continues: "  Even if the 
self portrait we distribute for popular consumption were accurate it 
would be dangerous to present it as a picture of the ideal society. We 
would be ignoring the special circumstances of other countries. The 
picture is the more treacherous when it misrepresents the facts of American 
life. The discrepancy between what we commonly profess and what 
we practice or tolerate is great, and it does not escape the notice 
of others. If our sincerity is granted, and it is granted, the discrepancy 
can only be explained by the fact that we have come to believe 
hearsay and legend about ourselves in preference to an understanding 
gained by earnest self-examination. What is more, the legends have become 
so sacrosanct that the very habit of self-examination or self-criticism 
smells of low treason, and men who practice it are defeatists and 
unpatriotic scoundrels.   **h although we continue to pay our 
conversational devotions to "free private enterprise", "individual 
initiative", "the democratic way", "government of the people", 
"competition of the marketplace", etc&, we live rather comfortably 
in a society in which economic competition is diminishing in 
large areas, bureaucracy is corroding representative government, technology 
is weakening the citizen's confidence in his own power to make 
decisions, and the threat of war is driving him economically and physically 
into the ground".   The interesting thing about Mr& 
Lyford's approach, and the approach of the contributors to <The 
Agreeable Autocracies> (Oceana Publications, 1961) to the situation 
of American civilization, is that it is concerned with comprehending 
the psychological relationships which are having a decisive effect 
on American life. In an ideological argument, the participants tend 
to thump the table. They are determined to <prove> something. The 
new spirit, so well illustrated by Mr& Lyford's work, is wholly 
free of this anxiety. The problem is rather to find out what is actually 
happening, and this is especially difficult for the reason that "we 
are busily being defended from a knowledge of the present, sometimes 
by the very agencies- our educational system, our mass media, our 
statesmen- on which we have had to rely most heavily for understanding 
of ourselves". The Introduction continues: "  We experience 
a vague uneasiness about events, a suspicion that our political 
and economic institutions, like the genie in the bottle, have escaped 
confinement and that we have lost the power to recall them. We feel 
uncomfortable at being bossed by a corporation or a union or a television 
set, but until we have some knowledge about these phenomena and 
what they are doing to us, we can hardly learn to control them. It does 
not appear that we will be delivered from our situation by articles 
on The National Purpose.   <The Agreeable Autocracies> 
is an attempt to explore some of the institutions which both reflect 
and determine the character of the free society today. The men who 
speculate on these institutions have, for the most part, come to at least 
one common conclusion: that many of the great enterprises and associations 
around which our democracy is formed are in themselves autocratic 
in nature, and possessed of power which can be used to frustrate 
the citizen who is trying to assert his individuality in the modern 
world".   These institutions which Mr& Lyford names "agreeable 
autocracies"- where did they come from? Of one thing we 
can be sure: they were not sketched out by the revolutionary theorists 
of the eighteenth century who formulated the political principles 
and originally shaped the political institutions of what we term the "free 
society". No doubt there are historians who can explain to a 
great extent what happened to the plans and projects of the eighteenth 
century. Going back over this ground and analyzing the composition 
of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken 
by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, in 
Santa Barbara. But however we come, finally, to explain and account 
for the present, the truth we are trying to expose, right now, is that 
the makers of constitutions and the designers of institutions find 
it difficult if not impossible to anticipate the behavior of the host 
of all their enterprises. The host is the flowing life of the human race. 
This life has its own currents and rhythms, its own multiple cycles 
and adaptations. On occasion it produces extraordinary novelties. 
Should Rousseau have been able to leave room in his social theory 
for the advent of television, atomic energy, and ~IBM machines? 
How would Thomas Jefferson feel after reading <Factories in the 
Field?> They tell us, sir, that we are free, because we have in one 
hand a ballot, and in the other a stock certificate. With these we 
shape our destiny and own private property, and that, sir, makes ours 
the best of all possible societies. The reality of the situation, however, 
is described by Mr& Lyford: "  Many of us may even 
be secretly relieved at having a plausible excuse to delegate ancient 
civic responsibilities to a new bureaucracy of experts. Thus the member 
of an industrial union comes to regard his officers as business 
agents who may proceed without interference or recall; the stockholder 
delivers his proxy; and the citizen narrows his political participation 
to the mere act of voting- if he votes at all". 
Copernicus did not question it, Ptolemy could not. Given the conceptual 
context within which ancient thought thrived, how could anyone have 
questioned this principle? The reasons for this are partly observational, 
partly philosophical, and reinforced by other aesthetic and 
cultural factors.   First, the observational reasons. <The> obvious 
natural fact to ancient thinkers was the diurnal rotation of the 
heavens. Not only did constellations like Draco, Cepheus, and Cassiopeia 
spin circles around the pole, but stars which were not circumpolar 
rose and set at the same place on the horizon each night. Nor did 
a constellation's stars vary in brightness during the course of their 
nocturnal flights. The conclusion- the distances of the constellations 
did not vary and their paths were circular. Moreover, the sun's 
path over earth described a segment of a great circle; this was 
clear from the contour of the shadow traced by a gnomon before and after 
noon.   As early as the /6,th century B&C& the earth 
was seen to be spherical. Ships disappear hull-first over the horizon; 
approaching shore their masts appeared first. Earth, being at 
the center of the universe, would have the same shape as the latter; 
so, e&g& did Aristotle argue, although this may not be an <observational> 
reason in favor of circularity. The discoid shapes of 
sun and moon were also felt to indicate the shape of celestial things.

In light of all this, one would require <special> reasons for 
saying that the paths of the heavenly bodies were other than circular. 
Why, for example, should the ancients have supposed the diurnal rotation 
of the heavens to be elliptical? Or oviform? Or angular? 
There were no reasons for such suppositions then. This, conjoined 
with the considerations above, made the circular motions of heavenly 
bodies appear an almost directly observed fact.   Additional philosophical 
considerations, advanced notably by Aristotle, supported further 
the circularity principle. By distinguishing superlunary (celestial) 
and sublunary (terrestrial) existence, and reinforcing this with 
the four-element physics of Empedocles, Aristotle came to speak of 
the stars as perfect bodies, which moved in only a perfect way, viz& 
in a perfect circle.   Now what is perfect motion? It must, 
apparently, be motion without termini. Because motion which begins and 
ends at discrete places would (e&g& for Aristotle) be incomplete. 
Circular motion, however, since it is eternal and perfectly continuous, 
lacks termini. It is never motion towards something. Only imcomplete, 
imperfect things move towards what they lack. Perfect, complete 
entities, if they move at all, do not move towards what they lack. 
They move only in accordance with what is in their natures. Thus, circular 
motion is itself one of the essential characteristics of completely 
perfect celestial existence.   To return now to the four-element 
physics, a mixture of muddy, frothy water will, when standing in 
a jar, separate out with earth at the bottom, water on top, and the 
air on top of that. A candle alight in the air directs its flame and 
smoke upwards. This gives a clue to the cosmical order of elements. 
Thus earth has fallen to the center of the universe. It is covered (partly) 
with water, air is atop of that. Pure fire (the stars) is in 
the heavens. When combined with the metaphysical notion that pure forms 
of this universe are best appreciated when least embodied in a material 
substratum, it becomes clear that while earth will be dross on a 
scale of material-formal ratios, celestial bodies will be of a subtle, 
quickened, ethereal existence, in whose embodiment pure form will be 
the dominant component and matter will be absent or remain subsidiary.

The stars constitute an order of existence different from what 
we encounter on earth. This is clear when one distinguishes the types 
of motion appropriate to both regions. A projectile shot up from earth 
returns rectlinearly to its 'natural' place of rest. But the 
natural condition for the heavenly bodies is neither rest, nor rectilinear 
motion. Being less encumbered by material embodiments they partake 
more of what is divine. Their motion will be eternal and perfect.

Let us re-examine the publicized contrasts between Ptolemaic 
and Copernican astronomy. Bluntly, there never was a Ptolemaic <system> 
of astronomy. Copernicus' achievement was to have <invented> 
systematic astronomy. The <Almagest> and the <Hypotheses> outline 
Ptolemy's conception of his own task as the provision of computational 
tables, independent calculating devices for the prediction 
of future planetary perturbations. Indeed, in the Halma edition of Theon's 
presentation of the <Hypotheses> there is a chart setting 
out (under six distinct headings) otherwise unrelated diagrams for describing 
the planetary motions. No attempt is made by Ptolemy to weld 
into a single scheme (<a la> Aristotle), these independent predicting-machines. 
They all have this in common: the earth is situated 
near the center of the deferent. But that one should superimpose all 
these charts, run a pin through the common point, and then scale each 
planetary deferent larger and smaller (to keep the epicycles from 'bumping'), 
this is contrary to any intention Ptolemy ever expresses. 
He might even suppose the planets to move at infinity. Ptolemy's 
problem is to forecast where, against the inverted bowl of night, some 
particular light will be found at future times. His problem concerns 
longitudes, latitudes, and angular velocities. The distances of these 
points of light is a problem he cannot master, beyond crude conjectures 
as to the orderings of the planetary orbits viewed outward from earth. 
But none of this has prevented scientists, philosophers, and even 
historians of science, from speaking of the Ptolemaic <system,> in 
contrast to the Copernican. This is a mistake. It is engendered by 
confounding the Aristotelian cosmology in the <Almagest> with the 
geocentric astronomy.   Ptolemy recurrently denies that he could 
ever <explain> planetary motion. This is what necessitates the nonsystematic 
character of his astronomy. So when textbooks, like that 
of Baker set out drawings of the 'Ptolemaic System', complete 
with earth in the center and the seven heavenly bodies epicyclically arranged 
on their several deferents, we have nothing but a misleading /20,th-century 
idea of what never existed historically.   It is 
the chief merit in Copernicus' work that all his planetary calculations 
are <interdependent>. He cannot, e&g& compute the retrograde 
arc traveled by Mars, without also making suppositions about the 
earth's own motion. He cannot describe eclipses without entertaining 
some form of 
a three-body problem. In Ptolemaic terms, however, eclipses 
and retrograde motion were <phenomena simpliciter,> to be explained 
directly as possible resultants of epicyclical combinations. In a 
<systematic> astronomy, like that of Copernicus, retrogradations become 
part of the conceptual structure of the system; they are no longer 
a puzzling aspect of intricately variable, local planetary motions.

Another contrast stressed when discussing Ptolemaic vs& 
Copernican astronomy, turns on the idea of <simplicity>. It is often 
stated that Copernican astronomy is 'simpler' than Ptolemaic. 
Some even say that this is the reason for the ultimate acceptance of 
the former. Thus, Margenau remarks: "A large number of unrelated 
epicycles was needed to explain the observations, but otherwise the 
[Ptolemaic] system served well and with quantitative precision. Copernicus, 
by placing the sun at the center of the planetary universe, 
was able to reduce the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen. 
Historical records indicate that Copernicus was unaware of the 
fundamental aspects of his so-called 'revolution', unaware perhaps 
of its historical importance, he rested content with having produced 
a <simpler> scheme for prediction. As an illustration of the principle 
of simplicity the heliocentric discovery has a peculiar appeal because 
it allows simplicity to be arithmetized; it involves a reduction 
in the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen".

Without careful qualification this can be misleading. If in any one 
calculation Ptolemy had had to invoke 83 epicycles <all at once,> 
while Copernicus never required more than one third this number, then 
(in the sense obvious to Margenau) Ptolemaic astronomy would be simpler 
than Copernican. But no single planetary problem ever required 
of Ptolemy more than six epicycles at one time. This, of course, results 
from the non-systematic, 'cellular' character of Ptolemaic 
theory. Calculations within the Copernican framework always raised questions 
about planetary configurations. These could be met only by considering 
the dynamical elements of several planets at one time. This 
is more ambitious than Ptolemy is ever required to be when he faces 
his isolated problems. Thus, in no ordinary sense of 'simplicity' 
is the Ptolemaic theory simpler than the Copernican. The latter required 
juggling several elements simultaneously. This was not simpler 
but much more difficult than exercises within Ptolemy's astronomy.

Analogously, anyone who argues that Einstein's theory of 
gravitation is simpler than Newton's, must say rather more to explain 
how it is that the latter is mastered by student-physicists, while 
the former can be managed (with difficulty) only by accomplished experts.

In a sense, Einstein's theory <is> simpler than Newton's, 
and there is a corresponding sense in which Copernicus' theory 
is simpler than Ptolemy's. But 'simplicity' here refers to 
<systematic simplicity>. The number of primitive ideas in systematically-simple 
theories is reduced to a minimum. The axioms required to 
make the theoretical machinery operate are set out tersely and powerfully, 
so that all permissible operations within the theory can be traced 
rigorously back to these axioms, rules, and primitive notions. This 
characterizes Euclid's formulation of geometry, but not Ptolemy's 
astronomy. There are in the <Almagest> no rules for determining 
<in advance> whether a new epicycle will be required for dealing with 
abberations in lunar, solar, or planetary behavior. The strongest 
appeal of the Copernican formulation consisted in just this: ideally, 
the justification for dealing with special problems in particular 
ways is completely set out in the basic 'rules' of the theory. The 
lower-level hypotheses are never 'ad hoc', never introduced <ex 
post facto> just to sweep up within the theory some recalcitrant datum. 
Copernicus, to an extent unachieved by Ptolemy, approximated to 
Euclid's vision. <De Revolutionibus> is not just a collection of 
facts and techniques. It is an organized system of these things. Solving 
astronomical problems requires, for Copernicus, not a random search 
of unrelated tables, but a regular employment of the rules defining 
the entire discipline.   Hence, noting the simplicity achieved 
in Copernicus' formulation does not provide <another> reason for 
the acceptance of <De Revolutionibus,> another reason beyond its 
systematic superiority. It provides exactly <the same> reason.

1543 A&D& is often venerated as the birthday of the scientific 
revolution. It is really the funeral day of scholastic science. Granted, 
the cosmological, philosophical, and cultural reverberations 
initiated by the <De Revolutionibus> were felt with increasing violence 
during the 300 years to follow. But, considered within technical 
astronomy, a different pattern can be traced.   In what does the 
dissatisfaction of Copernicus-the-astronomer consist? What in the 
<Almagest> draws his fire? Geocentricism <per se?> No. The 
formal displacement of the geocentric principle far from being Copernicus' 
<primary> concern, was introduced only to resolve what seemed 
to him intolerable in orthodox astronomy, namely, the 'unphysical' 
triplication of centric reference-points: one center from which 
the planet's distances were calculated, another around which planetary 
velocities were computed, and still a third center (the earth) from 
which the observations originated. This arrangement was for Copernicus 
literally monstrous: "With [the Ptolemaists] it is as though 
an artist were to gather the hands, feet, head and other members 
for his images from divers models, each part excellently drawn, but not 
related to a single body; and since they in no way match each other, 
the result would be a monster rather than a man".   Copernicus 
required a systematically integrated, physically intelligible astronomy. 
His objective was, essentially, to repair those aspects of orthodox 
astronomy responsible for its deficiencies in achieving these ends. 
That such deficiencies existed within Ptolemy's theory was not 
discovered <de novo> by Copernicus. The critical, rigorous examinations 
of Nicholas of Cusa and Nicholas of Oresme provided the context 
(a late medieval context) for Nicholas Copernicus' own work. 
The latter looked backward upon inherited deficiencies. Without abandoning 
too much, Copernicus sought to make orthodox astronomy systematically 
and mechanically acceptable. He did not think himself to be 
firing the first shot of an intellectual revolution. 
Henrietta's feeling of identity with Sara Sullam was crowned by her 
discovery of the coincidence that Sara's epitaph in the Jewish 
cemetery in Venice referred to her as "the Sulamite".   Into 
the texture of this tapestry of history and human drama Henrietta, 
as every artist delights to do, wove strands of her own intuitive insights 
into human nature and- 
especially in the remarkable story of the 
attraction and conflict between two so disparate and fervent characters 
as this pair- into the relations of men and women: "In their 
relations, she was the giver and he the receiver, nay the demander. His 
feeling always exacted sacrifices from her. **h One is so accustomed 
to think of men as the privileged who need but ask and receive, and 
women as submissive and yielding, that our sympathies are usually enlisted 
on the side of the man whose love is not returned, and we condemn 
the woman as a coquette **h. The very firmness of her convictions and 
logical clearness of her arguments captivated and stimulated him to 
make greater efforts; usually, this is most exasperating to men, who 
expect every woman to verify their preconceived notions concerning her 
sex, and when she does not, immediately condemn her as eccentric and 
unwomanly **h. She had the opportunity that few clever women can resist, 
of showing her superiority in argument over a man **h. Women themselves 
have come to look upon matters in the same light as the outside 
world, and scarcely find any wrong in submitting to the importunities 
of a stronger will, even when their affections are withheld **h. 
She was exposing herself to temptation which it is best to avoid where 
it can consistently be done. One who invites such trials of character 
is either foolhardy, overconfident or too simple and childlike in faith 
in mankind to see the danger. In any case but the last, such a course 
is sure to avenge itself upon the individual; the moral powers 
no more than the physical and mental, can bear overstraining. And, in 
the last case, a bitter disappointment but too often meets the confiding 
nature **h".   Henrietta was discovering in the process of 
writing, as the born writer does, not merely a channel for the discharge 
of accumulated information but a stimulus to the development of the 
creative powers of observation, insight and intuition.   Dr& 
Isaacs was so pleased with the quality of her biographical study of 
Sara Sullam that he considered submitting it to the <Century> Magazine 
or <Harper's> but he decided that its Jewish subject probably 
would not interest them and published it in <The Messenger,> 
"so our readers will be benefited instead". Under her father's 
influence it did not occur to Henrietta that she might write on subjects 
outside the Jewish field, but she did begin writing for other Anglo-Jewish 
papers and thus increased her output and her audience. And 
she wrote the libretto for an oratorio on the subject of Judas Maccabeus 
performed at the <Hanukkah> festival which came in December. 
By her eighteenth birthday her bent for writing was so evident that 
Papa and Mamma gave her a <Life of Dickens> as a spur to her aspiration.

Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened 
to her at that time by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within 
walking distance of home. It was established in a couple of buildings 
in the shopping district, with only a few professors, but all eminent 
men, and a few hundred eager students housed in nearby dwellings. 
In September '76 Thomas Huxley, Darwin's famous disciple, came 
from England to speak in a crowded auditorium at the formal opening 
of the University; and although it was a school for men only, it 
afforded Henrietta an opportunity to attend its public lectures.

In the following year her father undertook to give a course in Hebrew 
theology to Johns Hopkins students, and this brought to the Szold 
house a group of bright young Jews who had come to Baltimore to 
study, and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by Mamma and entertained 
by Henrietta and Rachel, who played and sang for them in the upstairs 
sitting room on Sunday evenings. From Philadelphia came Cyrus 
Adler and Joseph 
Jastrow. Adler, Judge Sulzberger's nephew, came to study Assyriology. 
A smart, shrewd and ambitious young man, well connected, and with 
a knack for getting in the good graces of important people, he was 
bound to go far. Joseph Jastrow, the younger son of the distinguished 
rabbi, Marcus Jastrow, was a friendly, round-faced fellow with a 
little mustache, whose field was psychology, and who was also a punster 
and a jolly tease. His father was a good friend of Rabbi Szold, and 
Joe lived with the Szolds for a while. Both these youths, who greatly 
admired Henrietta, were somewhat younger than she, as were also 
the neighboring Friedenwald 
boys, who were then studying medicine; 
and bright though they all were, they could not possibly compete for 
her interest with Papa, whose mind- although he never tried to dazzle 
or patronize lesser lights with it- naturally eclipsed theirs and 
made them seem to her even younger than they were. Besides, Miss Henrietta- 
as she was generally known since she had put up her hair 
with a chignon in the back- had little time to spare them from her 
teaching and writing; so Cyrus Adler became interested in her friend 
Racie Friedenwald, and Joe Jastrow- the only young man who when 
he wrote had the temerity to address her as Henrietta, and signed 
himself Joe- fell in love with pretty sister Rachel.   Henrietta, 
however, was at that time engaged in a lengthy correspondence with 
Joe's older and more serious brother, Morris, who was just about 
her own age and whom she had got to know well during trips to Philadelphia 
with Papa, when he substituted for Rabbi Jastrow at Rodeph 
Shalom Temple there during its Rabbi's absence in Europe. Young 
Morris, who, while attending the University of Pennsylvania, also 
taught and edited a paper, found time to write Henrietta twenty-page 
letters on everything that engaged his interest, from the acting of Sarah 
Bernhardt in Philadelphia to his reactions to the comments of 
"Sulamith" on the Jewish reform movement being promulgated by the 
Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati. Unlike his younger brother, 
Joe, he never presumed to address her more familiarly than as "My 
dear friend", although he praised and envied the elegance and purity 
of her style. And when he complained of the lack of time for all 
he wanted to do, Henrietta advised him to rise at five in the morning 
as she and Papa did.   One thing Papa had not taught Henrietta 
was how to handle a young man as high-spirited and opinionated as 
herself. She could not resist the opportunity "of showing her superiority 
in argument over a man" which she had remarked as one of the 
"feminine follies" of Sara Sullam; and in her forthright way, 
Henrietta, who in her story of Sara had indicated her own unwillingness 
"to think of men as the privileged" and "women as submissive 
and yielding", felt obliged to defend vigorously any statement of hers 
to which Morris Jastrow took the slightest exception- he objected 
to her stand on the Corbin affair, as well as on the radical reforms 
of Dr& Wise of Hebrew Union College- until once, in sheer 
desperation, he wrote that he had given up hope they would ever agree 
on anything. But that did not prevent him from writing more long letters, 
or from coming to spend his Christmas vacations with the hospitable, 
lively Szolds in their pleasant house on Lombard Street. 

#1880S: 
"LITTLE WOMEN"#

"WE'VE GOT Father and Mother 
and each other **h" said Beth on the first page of Louisa Alcott's 
<Little Women;> and, "I do think that families are the 
most beautiful things in all the world", burst out Jo some five hundred 
pages later in that popular story of the March family, which had 
first appeared when Henrietta was eight; and the Szold family, as 
it developed, bore a striking resemblance to the Marches.   Mr& 
March, like Benjamin Szold, was a clergyman, although of an indeterminate 
denomination; and "Marmee" March, like Sophie Szold, 
was the competent manager of her brood of girls, of whom the Marches 
had only four to the Szolds' five. But the March girls had their 
counterparts in the Szold girls. Henrietta could easily identify 
herself with Jo March, although Jo was not the eldest sister. Neither 
was Henrietta hoydenish like Jo, who frankly wished she were a 
boy and had deliberately shortened her name, which, like Henrietta's, 
was the feminine form of a boy's name. But both were high-spirited 
and vivacious, both had tempers to control, both loved languages, 
especially English and German, both were good teachers and wrote for 
publication. Each was her mother's assistant and confidante; and 
each stood out conspicuously in the family picture.   Bertha Szold 
was more like Meg, the eldest March girl, who "learned that a 
woman's happiest kingdom is home, her highest honor the art of ruling 
it, not as a queen, but a wise wife and mother". Bertha, blue-eyed 
like Mamma, was from the start her mother's daughter, destined for 
her mother's role in life. Sadie, like Beth March, suffered ill 
health- got rheumatic fever and had to be careful of her heart- 
but that never dampened her spirits. When her right hand was incapacitated 
by the rheumatism, Sadie learned to write with her left hand. She 
wrote gay plays about the girls for family entertainments, like "Oh, 
What Fun! A comedy in Three Acts", in which, under "Personages", 
Henrietta appeared as "A Schoolmarm", and Bertha, 
who was only a trifle less brilliant in high school than Henrietta 
had been, appeared as "<Dummkopf>". Sadie studied piano; played 
Chopin in the "Soiree Musicale of Mr& Guthrie's Pupils"; 
and she recited "Hector's Farewell to Andromache" most 
movingly, to the special delight of Rabbi Jastrow at his home in Germantown 
near Philadelphia, where the Szold girls took turns visiting 
between the visits of the Jastrow boys at the Szolds' in Baltimore. 
Adele, like Amy, the youngest of the Marches, was the rebellious, 
mischievous, rather calculating and ambitious one. For Rachel, 
conceded to be the prettiest of the Szold girls- and she did make 
a pretty picture sitting in the grape-arbor strumming her guitar and singing 
in her silvery tones- there was no particular March counterpart; 
but both groups were so closely knit that despite individual differences 
the family life in both cases was remarkably similar in atmosphere 
if not entirely in content- the one being definitely Jewish 
and the other vaguely Christian.   The Szolds, like the Marches, 
enjoyed and loved living together, even in troubled times; and, 
as in the March home, any young man who called on the Szolds found 
himself confronted with a phalanx of femininity which made it rather difficult 
to direct his particular attention to any one of them. This 
included Mamma, jolly, generous, and pretty, with whom they all fell 
in love, just as Papa had first fallen in love with <her> Mamma before 
he chose her; and when a young man like Morris Jastrow had enjoyed 
the Szold hospitality, he felt obliged to send his respects and 
his gifts not merely to Henrietta, in whom he was really interested, 
but to all the Szold girls and Mamma. And just as "Laurie" Lawrence 
was first attracted to bright Jo March, who found him immature 
by her high standards, and then had to content himself with her younger 
sister Amy, so Joe Jastrow, who had also been writing Henrietta 
before he came to Johns Hopkins, had to content himself with her 
younger sister, pretty Rachel. And like Jo March, who saw her sisters 
Meg and Amy involved in "lovering" before herself, Henrietta 
saw her sisters Rachel and Sadie drawn outside their family circle 
by the attraction of suitors, Rachel by Joe Jastrow, and Sadie by 
Max Lo^bl, a young businessman who would write her romantic descriptions 
of his trips by steamboat down the Mississippi.

This time he was making no mistake. Olgivanna- in her country 
the 
nickname was a respectful form of address- was not only attractive but 
shrewd, durable, sensible, and smart. No wonder Wright was enchanted- 
no two better suited people ever met. Almost from that day, until 
his death, Olgivanna was to stay at his side; but the years that 
immediately followed were to be extraordinarily trying, both for Wright 
and his Montenegrin lady.   It must be granted that the flouting 
of convention, no matter how well intentioned one may be, is sure 
to lead to trouble, or at least to the discomfort that goes with social 
disapproval. Even so, many of the things that happened to Wright 
and Olgivanna seem inordinately severe. Their afflictions centered 
on one maddening difficulty: Miriam held up the divorce proceedings 
that she herself had asked for. Reporters began to trail Miriam everywhere, 
and to encourage her to make appalling statements about Wright 
and his doings. Flocks of writs, attachments, and unpleasant legal 
papers of every sort began to fly through the air. The distracted Miriam 
would agree to a settlement through her legal representative, then 
change her mind and make another attack on Wright as a person. At 
last her lawyer, Arthur D& Cloud, gave up the case because she 
turned down three successive settlements he arranged. Cloud made an interesting 
statement in parting from his client: "I wanted to be 
a lawyer, and Mrs& Wright wanted me to be an avenging angel. So I 
got out. Mrs& Wright is without funds. The first thing to do is 
get her some money by a temporary but definite adjustment pending a final 
disposition of the case. But every time I suggested this to her, 
Mrs& Wright turned it down and demanded that I go out and punish 
Mr& Wright. I am an attorney, not an instrument of vengeance". 
Miriam Noel disregarded the free advice of her departing counselor, 
and appointed a heavy-faced young man named Harold Jackson to take 
his place.   There were three years of this strange warfare; 
and during the unhappy time, Miriam often would charge that Wright and 
Olgivanna were misdemeanants against the public order of Wisconsin. 
Yet somehow, when officers were prodded into visiting Taliesin to 
execute the warrants, they would find neither Wright nor Olgivanna 
at home. This showed that common sense had not died out at the county 
and village level- though why the unhappy and obviously unbalanced 
woman was not restrained remains a puzzle. The misery of Miriam's 
bitterness can be felt today by anyone who studies the case- it was 
hopeless, agonizing, and destructive, with Miriam herself bearing the 
heaviest burden of shame and pain.   To get an idea of the embarrassment 
and chagrin that was heaped upon Wright and Olgivanna, we 
should bear in mind that the raids were sometimes led by Miriam in person. 
One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred at Spring 
Green toward the end of the open warfare, on a beautiful day in June. 
At this time Miriam Noel appeared, urging on Constable Henry Pengally, 
whose name showed him to be a descendant of the Welsh settlers 
in the neighborhood. A troop of reporters brought up the rear. Miriam 
was stopped at the Taliesin gate, and William Weston, now the 
estate foreman, came out to parley. He said that Mr& Wright was 
not in, and so could not be arrested on something called a peace warrant 
that Miriam was waving in the air. Miriam now ordered Pengally to 
break down the gate, but he said he really couldn't go that far. At 
this point Mrs& Frances Cupply, one of Wright's handsome daughters 
by his first wife, came from the house and tried to calm Miriam 
as she tore down a NO VISITORS sign and smashed the glass pane 
on another sign with a rock.   Miriam Noel Wright said, "Here 
I am at my own home, locked out so I must stand in the road"! 
Then she rounded on Weston and cried, "You always did Wright's 
dirty work! When I take over Taliesin, the first thing I'll 
do is fire you".   "Madame Noel, I think you had better 
go", said Mrs& Cupply.   "And I think <you> had better 
leave", replied Miriam. Turning to the reporters, she asked, "Did 
you hear her? 'I think you had better leave'! And this 
is my own home". In the silence that followed, Miriam walked close 
to Mrs& Cupply, who drew back a step on her side of the gate. Then, 
with staring eyes and lips drawn thin, Miriam said to the young woman, 
"You are ugly- uglier than you used to be, and you were always 
very ugly. You are even uglier than Mr& Wright".   The 
animosity expressed by such a scene had the penetrating quality of a 
natural force; and it gave Miriam Noel a fund of energy like that 
of a person inspired to complete some great and universal work of art. 
As if to make certain that Wright would be unable to pay any settlement 
at all, Miriam wrote to prospective clients denouncing him; she 
also went to Washington and appealed to Senator George William 
Norris of Nebraska, the Fighting Liberal, from whose office a sympathetic 
but cautious harrumphing was heard. Then, after overtures to 
accept a settlement and go through with a divorce, Miriam gave a ghastly 
echo of Mrs& Micawber by suddenly stating, "I will never leave 
Mr& Wright".   Under this kind of pressure, it is not 
surprising that Wright would make sweeping statements to the newspapers. 
Miriam had not yet goaded him into mentioning her directly, but one 
can feel the generalized anger in Wright's remarks to reporters 
when he was asked, one morning on arrival in Chicago, what he thought 
of the city as a whole. First, Wright said, he was choked by the smoke, 
which fortunately kept him from seeing the dreadful town. But surely 
Michigan Avenue was handsome? "That isn't a boulevard, it's 
a racetrack"! cried Wright, showing that automobiles were considered 
to be a danger as early as the 1920's. "This is a horrible 
way to live", Wright went on. "You are being strangled by traffic". 
He was then asked for a solution of the difficulty, and began 
to talk trenchant sense, though private anguish showed through in the 
vehemence of his manner. "Take a gigantic knife and sweep it over 
the Loop", Wright said. "Cut off every building at the seventh 
floor. Spread everything out. You don't need concentration. If 
you cut down these horrible buildings you'll have no more traffic jams. 
You'll have trees again. You'll have some joy in the life of 
this city. After all, that's the job of the architect- to give 
the world a little joy".

Little enough joy was afforded Wright 
in the spring of 1925, when another destructive fire broke out at Taliesin. 
The first news stories had it that this blaze was started by 
a bolt of lightning, as though Miriam could call down fire from heaven 
like a prophet of the Old Testament. A storm did take place that 
night, and fortunately enough, it included a cloudburst that helped put 
out the flames. Later accounts blamed defective wiring for starting 
the fire; at any rate, heat grew so intense in the main part of the 
house that it melted the window panes, and fused the K'ang-si pottery 
to cinders. Wright set his loss at $200,000, a figure perhaps justified 
by the unique character of the house that had been ruined, and 
the faultless taste that had gone into the selection of the prints and 
other things that were destroyed. In spite of the disaster, Wright 
completed during this period plans for the Lake Tahoe resort, in which 
he suggested the shapes of American Indian tepees- a project of 
great and appropriate charm, that came to nothing. Amid a shortage of 
profitable work, the memory of Albert Johnson's $20,000 stood out 
in lonely grandeur- the money had quickly melted away. A series of 
conferences with friends and bankers began about this time; and the 
question before these meetings was, here is a man of international reputation 
and proved earning power; how can he be financed so that he 
can find the work he ought to do? While this was under consideration, 
dauntless as ever Wright set about the building of Taliesin /3,.

As he made plans for the new Taliesin, Wright also got on 
paper his conception of a cathedral of steel and glass to house a congregation 
of all faiths, and the idea for a planetarium with a sloping 
ramp. Years were to pass before these plans came off the paper, and 
Wright was justified in thinking, as the projects failed, that much 
of what he had to show his country and the world would never be seen except 
by visitors to Taliesin. And now there was some question as to 
his continued residence there. Billy Koch, who had once worked for 
Wright as a chauffeur, gave a deposition for Miriam's use that he 
had seen Olgivanna living at Taliesin. This might put Wright in such 
a bad light before a court that Miriam would be awarded Taliesin; 
nor was she moved by a letter from Wright pointing out that if he 
was not "compelled to spend money on useless lawyer's bills, useless 
hotel bills, and useless doctor's bills", he could more quickly 
provide Miriam with a suitable home either in Los Angeles or Paris, 
as she preferred. Miriam sniffed at this, and complained that Wright 
had said unkind things about her to reporters. His reply was, "Everything 
that has been printed derogatory to you, purporting to have 
come from me, was a betrayal, and nothing yet has been printed which 
I have sanctioned". What irritated Miriam was that Wright had told 
the papers about a reasonable offer he had made, which he considered 
she would accept "when she tires of publicity". From her California 
headquarters, Miriam fired back, "I shall never divorce Mr& 
Wright, to permit him to marry Olga Milanoff".   Then Miriam 
varied the senseless psychological warfare by suddenly withdrawing 
a suit for separate maintenance that had been pending, and asking 
for divorce on the grounds of cruelty, with the understanding that Wright 
would not contest it. The Bank of Wisconsin sent a representative 
to the judge's chambers in Madison to give information on Wright's 
ability to meet the terms. He said that the architect might reasonably 
be expected to carry his financial burdens if all harrassment 
could be brought to an end, and that the bank would accept a mortgage 
on Taliesin to help bring this about. Miriam said that she must be 
assured that "that other woman, Olga, will not be in luxury while I 
am scraping along". This exhausted Wright's patience, and in consequence 
he talked freely to reporters in a Madison hotel suite. "Volstead 
laws, speed laws, divorce laws", he said, "as they now 
stand, demoralize the individual, make liars and law breakers of us in 
one way or another, and tend to make our experiment in democracy absurd. 
If Mrs& Wright doesn't accept the terms in the morning, I'll 
go either to Tokyo or to Holland, to do what I can. I realize, 
in taking this stand, just what it means to me and mine". Here Wright 
gave a slight sigh of weariness, and continued, "It means more 
long years lived across the social grain of the life of our people, 
making shift to live in the face of popular disrespect and misunderstanding 
as I best can for myself and those dependent upon me". Next 
day, word came that Miriam was not going through with the divorce; 
but Wright stayed in the United States. His mentioning of Japan and 
Holland had been merely the expression of wishful thinking. No matter 
what troubles might betide him, this most American of artists knew 
in his heart he could not function properly outside his native land.

In a few weeks Miriam made another sortie at Taliesin, but 
was repulsed at the locked and guarded gates. 
More likely, you simply told yourself, as you handed us the book, that 
it mattered little what we incanted providing we underwent the discipline 
of incantation.   For pride's sake, I will not say that 
the coy and leering vade mecum of those verses insinuated itself into 
my soul. Besides, that particular message does no more than weakly echo 
the roar in all fresh blood. But what you could not know, of course, 
was how smoothly the Victorian Fitzgerald was to lead into an American 
Fitzgerald of my own vintage under whose banner we adolescents 
were to come, if not of age, then into a bright, taut semblance of it. 
I do not suppose you ever heard of F& Scott Fitzgerald, living 
or dead, and moreover I do not suppose that, even if you had, his legend 
would have seemed to you to warrant more than a cluck of disapproval. 
Neither his appetites, his exacerbations, nor his despair were 
kin to yours. He might have been the man in the moon for all you could 
have understood him. But he was no man in the moon to me. Although 
his tender nights were not the ones I dreamed of, nor was it for yachts, 
sports cars, tall drinks, and swimming pools, nor yet for money or 
what money buys that I burned, I too was burning and watching myself 
burn. The flame was simply of a different kind. It was symbolized 
(at least for those of us who recognized ourselves in the image) by that 
self-consuming, elegiac candle of Edna St& Vincent Millay's, 
that candle which from the quatrain where she ensconced it became a 
beacon to us, but which in point of fact would have had to be as tall 
as a funeral taper to last even the evening, let alone the night. One 
should not, of course, pluck the head off a flower and expect its perfume 
to linger on. Yet this passion for passion, now that I look back 
on it with passion spent, seems somewhat overblown and operatic, though 
as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes. Only what 
else was she singing but the old Song of Songs, that most ancient 
of tunes that nature plays with such unfailing response upon young nerves? 
Perhaps this is not so little. Perhaps the mere fact that by 
plucking on the nerves nature can awaken in the most ordinary of us, temporarily 
anyway, the sleeping poet, and in poets can discover their 
immortality, is the most remarkable of all the remarkable phenomena to 
which we can attest? One can see it as humiliating that an extra hormone 
casually fed into our chemistry may induce us to lay down our lives 
for a lover or a friend; one can take it as no more than another 
veil torn from the mystery of the soul. But it could also be looked 
at from the other end of the spectrum. One could see this chemical determinant 
as in itself a miracle. In any case, Miss Millay's sweet-throated 
bitterness, her variations on the theme that the world was 
not only well lost for love but even well lost for lost love, her constant 
and wonderfully tragic posture, so unlike that of Fitzgerald since 
it required no scenery or props, drew from the me that I was when 
I fell upon her verses an overwhelming yea.   But all this, I 
am well aware, is the <bel canto> of love, and although I have always 
liked to think that it was to the <bel canto> and to that alone 
that I listened, I know well enough that it was not. If I am to speak 
the whole truth about my knowledge of love, I will have to stop 
trying to emulate the transcendant nightingale. There is another side 
of love, more nearly symbolized by the croak of the mating capercailzie, 
or better still perhaps by the mute antics of the slug.   Whether 
you experienced the passion of desire I have, of course, no way 
of knowing, nor indeed have I wished with even the most fleeting fragment 
of a wish to know, for the fact that one constitutes by one's 
mere existence so to speak the proof of some sort of passion makes any 
speculation upon this part of one's parents' experience more immodest, 
more scandalizing, more deeply unwelcome than an obscenity from 
a stranger. I recoil from the very thought. At the same time, I am 
aware that my recoil could be interpreted by readers of the tea leaves 
at the bottom of my psyche as an incestuous sign, since theirs is a science 
of paradox: if one hates, they say it is because one loves; 
if one bullies, they say it is because one is afraid; if one shuns, 
they say it is because one desires; and according to them, whatever 
one fancies one feels, what one feels in fact is the opposite. Well, 
normally abnormal or normally normal, neurotic or merely fastidious (do 
the tea-leaf readers, by the way, allow psyches to have moral taste?), 
I have never wanted to know what you knew of passion. ##

YOU 
PROBABLY WOULD NOT REMEMBER, SINCE YOU NEVER seemed to remember 
even 
the same moments as I, much less their intensity, one sunny midday on 
Fifth Avenue when you had set out with me for some final shopping 
less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance 
at the Farm. I can see us now. We had been walking quite briskly, 
for despite your being so small and me so tall, your stride in those 
days could easily match mine. We had stopped before a shop window 
to assess its autumnal display, when you suddenly turned to me, looking 
up from beneath one of your wrong hats, and with your nervous "ahem"! 
said: "There are things I must tell you about this man you 
are marrying which he does not know himself". If you had screamed 
right there in the street where we stood, I could not have felt more 
fear. With scarcely a mumble of excuse, I fled. I fled, however, 
not from what might have been the natural fear of being unable to disguise 
from you that the things about my bridegroom- in the sense you 
meant the word "things"- which you had been galvanizing yourself 
to tell me as a painful part of your maternal duty were things which 
I had already insisted upon finding out for myself (despite, I may now 
say, the unspeakable awkwardness of making the discovery on principle, 
yes, on principle, and in cold blood) because I was resolved, as 
a modern woman, not to be a mollycoddle waiting for Life but to seize 
Life by the throat. I had developed too foolproof a facade to be afraid 
of self-betrayal. What I fled from was my fear of what, unwittingly, 
you might betray, without meaning to, about my father and yourself.

But I can see from this latest trick of memory how much 
more arbitrary and influential it is than the will. While my memory 
holds with relentless tenacity, as I cannot too often stress, to my wrongs, 
when it comes to my shames, it gestures and jokes and toys with 
chronology like a prestidigitator in the hope of distracting me from 
them. Just as I was about to enlarge upon my discovery of the underside 
of the leaf of love, memory, displeased at being asked to yield its 
unsavory secrets, dashed ahead of me, calling back over its shoulder: 
"Skip it. Cut it out". But I will not skip it or cut it 
out. 
It is not my intention in this narrative to picture myself as a helpless 
victim moored to the rock of experience and left to the buffetings 
of chance. If to be innocent is to be helpless, then I had been- 
as are we all- helpless at the start. But the time came when I was 
no longer innocent and therefore no longer helpless. Helpless in that 
sense I can never be again. However, I confess my hope that I 
will be innocent again, not with a pristine, accidental innocence, but 
rather with an innocence achieved by the slow cutting away of the flesh 
to reach the bone.   For innocence, of all the graces of the 
spirit, is I believe the one most to be prayed for. Although it is constantly 
made to look foolish (too simple to come in out of the rain, 
people say, who have found in the innocent an impediment), it does not 
mind looking foolish because it is not concerned with how it looks. 
It assumes that things are as they seem when they seem best, and when 
they seem worst it overlooks them. To innocence, a word given is a word 
that will be kept. Instinctively, innocence does unto others as it 
expects to be done by. But when these expectations are once too often 
ground into the dust, innocence can falter, since its strength is according 
to the strength of him who possesses it. The innocence of which 
I speak is, I know, not incorruptible. But I insist upon believing 
that even when it is lost, it may, like paradise, be regained.

However, it was not of innocence in general that I was speaking, 
but of perhaps the frailest and surely the least important side of 
it which is innocence in romantic love. Here, if anywhere, it is not 
wholly incontrovertible. To you, for instance, the word innocence, in 
this connotation, probably retained its Biblical, or should I say 
technical sense, and therefore I suppose I must make myself quite clear 
by saying that I lost- or rather handed over- what you would 
have considered to be my innocence two weeks before I was legally entitled, 
and in fact by oath required, to hand it over along with what other 
goods and bads I had. But to me innocence is far less tangible. 
I had long since begun to lose my general innocence when I lost my 
trust in you, but this special innocence I lost before ever I loved, 
through my discovery that one could tremble with desire and even experience 
a flaming delight that had nothing, nothing whatever to do with 
friendship or liking, let alone with love. I knew this knowledge to 
be corrupting at the time I acquired it; today, these many years later, 
after all the temptations resisted or yielded to, the weasel satisfactions 
and the engulfing dissatisfactions since endured, I call it 
corrupting still.   You, I could swear to it, remained innocent 
in this sense until the end. Yours, but not mine, was an age in which 
innocence was fostered and carefully- if not perhaps altogether 
innocently- preserved. You had grown up at a time when the most distinguishing 
mark of a lady was the <noli me tangere> writ plain across 
her face. Moreover, because of the particular blot on your family 
escutcheon through what may only have been one unbridled moment on your 
grandmother's part, and because you had the lean-to kitchen and trundle 
bed of your childhood to outgrow, what you obviously most desired 
with both your conscious and unconscious person, what you bent your 
whole will, sensibility, and intelligence upon, was to be a lady. Before 
being daughter, wife, or mother, before being cultured (a word now 
bereft both socially and politically of the sheen you children of frontiersmen 
bestowed on it), before being sorry for the poor, progressive 
about public health, and prettily if somewhat imprecisely humanitarian, 
indeed first and foremost, you were a lady. There was, of course, 
more to the portrait of a lady you carried in your mind's eye than 
the <sine qua non> of her virtue. A lady, you made clear to me both 
by precept and example, never raised her voice or slumped in her chair, 
never failed in social tact (in heaven, for instance, would not mention 
St& John the Baptist's head), never pouted or withdrew or 
scandalized in company, never reminded others of her physical presence 
by unseemly sound or gesture, never indulged in public scenes or private 
confidences, never spoke of money save in terms of alleviating suffering, 
never gossiped or maligned, never stressed but always minimized 
the hopelessness of anything from sin to death itself. 
With each song he gave verbal footnotes. The songs Sandburg sang often 
reminded listeners of songs of a kindred character they knew entirely 
or in fragments. Often these listeners would refer Sandburg to persons 
who had similar ballads or ditties. In due time Sandburg was 
a walking thesaurus of American folk music.   After he had finished 
the first two volumes of his <Lincoln>, Sandburg went to work 
assembling a book of songs out of hobo and childhood days and from the 
memory of songs others had taught him. He rummaged, found composers 
and arrangers, collaborated on the main design and outline of harmonization 
with musicians, ballad singers, and musicologists.   The 
result was a collection of 280 songs, ballads, ditties, brought together 
from all regions of America, more than one hundred never before published: 
<The American Songbag>. Each song or ditty was prefaced 
by an author's note which indicated the origin and meaning of the 
song as well as special interest the song had, musical arrangement, 
and most of the chorus and verses.   The book, published in 1927, 
has been selling steadily ever since. As Sandburg said at the time: 
"It is as ancient as the medieval European ballads brought to 
the Appalachian Mountains, it is as modern as skyscrapers, the Volstead 
Act, and the latest oil well gusher". 

#SCHOPENHAUER NEVER LEARNED# 

Sandburg is in constant demand as an entertainer. Two things 
contribute to his popularity. First, Carl respects his audience and 
prepares his speeches carefully. Even when he is called upon for impromptu 
remarks, he has notes written on the back of handy envelopes. 
He has his own system of shorthand, devised by abbreviations: "humility" 
will be "humly", "with" will be "~w", and "that" 
will be "~tt".   The second reason for his popularity 
is his complete spontaneity with the guitar. It is a mistake, however, 
to imagine that Sandburg uses the guitar as a prop. He is no dextrous-fingered 
college boy but rather a dedicated, humble, and bashful 
apostle of this instrument. At age seventy-four, he became what he 
shyly terms a "pupil" of Andres Segovia, the great guitarist of 
the Western world.   It is not easy to become Segovia's pupil. 
One needs high talent. Segovia has written about Carl: 
"His fingers labor heavily on the strings and he asked for my help 
in disciplining them. I found that this precocious, grown-up boy of 
74 deserved to be taught. There has long existed a brotherly affection 
between us, thus I accepted him as my pupil. Just as in the case of 
every prodigy child, we must watch for the efficacy of my teaching to 
show up in the future- if he should master all the strenuous exercises 
I inflicted on him.   To play the guitar as he aspires will 
devour his three-fold energy as a historian, a poet and a singer. One 
cause of Schopenhauer's pessimism was the fact that he failed to 
learn the guitar. I am certain that Carl Sandburg will not fall into 
the same sad philosophy. The heart of this great poet constantly bubbles 
forth a generous joy of life- with or without the guitar".

The public's identification of Carl Sandburg and the guitar 
is no happenstance. Nor does Carl reject this identity.   He 
is proud of having Segovia for a friend and dedicated a poem to him 
titled "The Guitar".   Carl says it is the greatest poem 
ever written to the guitar because he has never heard of any other poem 
to that subtle instrument. "A portable companion always ready to 
go where you go- a small friend weighing less than a freshborn infant- 
to be shared with few or many- just two of you in sweet meditation".

The <New York Herald Tribune's> photographer, 
Ira Rosenberg, tells an anecdote about the time he wanted to take a 
picture of Carl playing a guitar. Carl hadn't brought his along. Mr& 
Rosenberg suggested that they go out and find one.   "Preferably", 
said Carl, "one battered and worn, such as might be found 
in a pawnshop".   They went to the pawnshop of Joseph Miller 
of 1162 Sixth Avenue.   "Mr& Miller was in the shop", 
the <Herald Tribune> story related, "but was reluctant to have 
anybody's picture taken inside, because his business was too 'confidential' 
for pictures.   "But after introductions he asked: 
'Carl Sandburg? Well <you> can pose inside'. 
"He wanted Mr& Sandburg to pose with one of the guitars he had 
displayed behind glass in the center of his shop, but the poet eyed this 
somewhat distastefully. 'Kalamazoo guitars', he said, 'used 
by radio hillbilly singers'.   "He chose one from Mr& Miller's 
window, a plain guitar with no fancy polish. While the picture 
was taken, Mr& Miller's disposition to be generous to Mr& 
Sandburg increased to the point where he advised, 'I won't even 
charge you the one dollar rental fee'". 

#A KNOWLEDGEABLE CELEBRITY# 

When someone in the audience rose and asked how does it feel to 
be a celebrity, Carl said, "A celebrity is a fellow who eats celery 
with celerity".   This has always been Carl's attitude. 
Lloyd Lewis wrote that when he first knew Carl in 1916, Sandburg was 
making $27.50 a week writing features for the <Day Book> and eating 
sparse luncheons in one-arm restaurants. He walked home at night 
for two miles beyond the end of a suburban trolley.   When fame 
came it changed Sandburg only slightly. Lewis remembered another newspaperman 
asking, "Carl, have your ideas changed any since you got 
all these comforts"?   Carl thought the question over slowly 
and answered: "I know a starving man who is fed never remembers 
all the pangs of his starvation, I know that".   That was all 
he said, Lewis reports. That was all he had to say.   In answer 
to a <New York Times> query on what is fame ("Thoughts on 
Fame", October 23, 1960), Carl said: "Fame is a figment of a 
pigment. It comes and goes. It changes with every generation. There 
never were two fames alike. One fame is precious and luminous; another 
is a bubble of a bauble". #"AH, DID YOU ONCE SEE SHELLEY 
PLAIN"?#

The impression you get from Carl Sandburg's home is 
one of laughter and happiness; and the laughter and the happiness are 
even more pronounced when no company is present.   Carl has been 
married to Paula for fifty-three years, and he has not made a single 
major decision without careful consideration and thorough discussion 
with his wife. Through all these years, Mrs& Sandburg has pointedly 
avoided the limelight. She has shared her husband's greatness, 
but only within the confines of their home; it is a dedication which 
began the moment she met Carl.   Mrs& Sandburg received a 
Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Chicago and she was busy 
writing and teaching when she met Sandburg. "You are the 'Peoples' 
Poet'" was her appraisal in 1908, and she stopped teaching 
and writing to devote herself to the fulfillment of her husband's 
career.   She has rarely been photographed with him and, except 
for Carl's seventy-fifth anniversary celebration in Chicago in 1953, 
she has not attended the dozens of banquets, functions, public appearances, 
and dinners honoring him- all of this upon her insistence. 
Even now I will not intrude upon her except to state a few bare facts.

The only way to describe Paula Sandburg is to say she is 
beautiful in a Grecian sense. Her clothes, her hair, everything about 
her is both graceful and simple. She has small, broad, capable hands 
and an enormous energy.   She is not only a trained mathematician 
and Classicist, but a good architect. She designed and supervised 
the building of the Harbert, Michigan, house, most of which was constructed 
by one local carpenter who carried the heavy beams singly upon 
his shoulder. As the Sandburg goat herd increased, she also designed 
the barn alterations to accommodate them. When erosion threatened 
the foundation of their home in Harbert, Paula Sandburg planted grapevines 
and arranged the snow fences which helped hold the sands away.

She was born Lilian Steichen, her parents immigrants from 
Luxemburg. Her mother called her Paus'l, a Luxemburg endearment 
meaning "pussycat". Some of the children of the family could not 
pronounce this name and called her Paula, a soubriquet Carl liked so 
much she has been Paula ever since.   But neither was Lilian 
her baptismal name. Her parents, pious Roman Catholics, christened 
her Mary Anne Elizabeth Magdalene Steichen. "My mother read a 
book right after I was born and there was a Lilian in the book she 
loved and I became Lilian- and eventually I became Paula".

Lilian Steichen was an exceptional student. This family of Luxemburg 
immigrants, in fact, produced two exceptional children. Paula's 
older brother is Edward Steichen, a talented artist and, for the 
past half-century, one of the world's eminent photographers. (Two 
years ago the photography editor of <Vogue> magazine titled his article 
about Steichen, "The World's Greatest Photographer".)

By the time Lilian had been graduated from public school, her 
parents were doing quite well. Her mother was a good manager and established 
a millinery business in Milwaukee. But her father was not enthusiastic 
about sending young Paula to high school. "This is no 
place for a young girl", he said. The parents compromised, however, 
on a convent school and Paula went to Ursuline Academy in London, 
Ontario.   She was pious, too, once kneeling through the night 
from Holy Thursday to Good Friday, despite the protest of the nuns 
that this was too much for a young girl. She knelt out of reverence 
for having read the <Meditations> of St& Augustine.   She 
read everything else she could get her hands on, including an article 
(she thinks it was in the <Atlantic Monthly>) by Mark Twain on 
"White Slavery". Paula was saddened about what was happening to 
little girls and vowed to kneel no more in Chapel. She had come to 
a decision. If there was ever a thought in her mind she might devote 
her life to religion, it was now dispelled. "I felt that I must devote 
myself to the 'outside' world".   She passed the entrance 
examinations to the University of Illinois, but during the year 
at Urbana felt more important events transpired at the University 
of Chicago.   "And besides, Thorstein Veblen was one of the 
Chicago professors".   At the University of Chicago she studied 
Whitman and Shelley, and became a Socialist. Socialist leaders 
in Milwaukee recognized her worth, not only because of her dedication 
but because of her fluency in German, French, and Luxemburg. She 
once gave a German recitation before a convention of German-language 
teachers in Milwaukee.   Carl and Paula met in Milwaukee 
in 1907 during Paula's Christmas holiday visit to her parents. Carl 
was still Charles A& Sandburg. He "legitimized" Paula for 
Lilian Steichen, and it was Paula who insisted on Carl for Charles.

Victor Berger, the panjandrum of Wisconsin Socialism and 
member of Congress, had asked Paula Steichen to translate some of 
his German editorials into English. Carl, who was stationed in Appleton, 
Wisconsin, organizing for the Social Democrats, was in Berger's 
office and made it his business to escort Paula to the streetcar. 
She left the next day for her teaching job at Princeton, Illinois. 
(After graduation from the University of Chicago, Paula taught 
for two years in the normal school at Valley City, North Dakota, 
then two years at Princeton (Illinois) Township High School.) By 
the time the streetcar pulled away, he had fallen in love with Paula.

A letter awaited her at Princeton. Paula says that even 
though Carl's letters usually began, "Dear Miss Steichen", there 
was an understanding from the beginning that they would become husband 
and wife.   Paula generously lent me one of Carl's love 
letters, dated February 21, 1908, Hotel Athearn, Oshkosh, Wisconsin:

"Dear Miss Steichen: It is a very good letter you 
send me- softens the intensity of this guerilla warfare I am carrying 
on up here. Never until in this work of ~S-~D organization 
have I realized and felt the attitude and experience of a <Teacher>.

The United States is always ready to participate with the Soviet 
Union in serious discussion of these or any other subjects that 
may lead to peace with justice.   Certainly it is not necessary 
to repeat that the United States has no intention of interfering in 
the internal affairs of any nation; by the same token, we reject any 
Soviet attempt to impose its system on us or other peoples by force 
or subversion.   Now this concern for the freedom of other peoples 
is the intellectual and spiritual cement which has allied us with 
more than forty other nations in a common defense effort. Not for a 
moment do we forget that our own fate is firmly fastened to that of these 
countries; we will not act in any way which would jeopardize our 
solemn commitments to them. ##

We and our friends are, of course, 
concerned with self-defense. Growing out of this concern is the realization 
that all people of the Free World have a great stake in the 
progress, in freedom, of the uncommitted and newly emerging nations. 
These peoples, desperately hoping to lift themselves to decent levels 
of living must not, by our neglect, be forced to seek help from, and 
finally become virtual satellites of, those who proclaim their hostility 
to freedom.   But they must have technical and investment assistance. 
This is a problem to be solved not by America alone, but also 
by every nation cherishing the same ideals and in position to provide 
help.   In recent years America's partners and friends in 
Western Europe and Japan have made great economic progress. 
The international economy of 1960 is markedly different from that of 
the early postwar years. No longer is the United States the only major 
industrial country capable of providing substantial amounts of the 
resources so urgently needed in the newly developed countries.

To remain secure and prosperous themselves, wealthy nations must extend 
the kind of co-operation to the less fortunate members that will 
inspire hope, confidence, and progress. A rich nation can for a time, 
without noticeable damage to itself, pursue a course of self-indulgence, 
making its single goal the material ease and comfort of its own citizens- 
thus repudiating its own spiritual and material stake in a peaceful 
and prosperous society of nations. But the enmities it will incur, 
the isolation into which it will descend, and the internal moral 
and spiritual softness that will be engendered, will, in the long term, 
bring it to economic and political disaster.   America did not 
become great through softness and self-indulgence. Her miraculous progress 
in material achievements flows from other qualities far more worthy 
and substantial: adherence to principles and methods consonant 
with our religious philosophy; a satisfaction in hard work; the readiness 
to sacrifice for worthwhile causes; the courage to meet every 
challenge; the intellectual honesty and capacity to recognize the 
true path of her own best interests.   To us and to every nation 
of the Free World, rich or poor, these qualities are necessary today 
as never before if we are to march together to greater security, prosperity 
and peace.   I believe that the industrial countries are 
ready to participate actively in supplementing the efforts of the developing 
nations to achieve progress.   The immediate need for 
this kind of co-operation is underscored by the strain in this nation's 
international balance of payments. Our surplus from foreign business 
transactions has in recent years fallen substantially short of the 
expenditures we make abroad to maintain our military establishments overseas, 
to finance private investment, and to provide assistance to the 
less developed nations. In 1959 our deficit in balance of payments 
approached four billion dollars.   Continuing deficits of anything 
like this magnitude would, over time, impair our own economic growth 
and check the forward progress of the Free World.   We must 
meet this situation by promoting a rising volume of exports and world 
trade. Further, we must induce all industrialized nations of the Free 
World to work together to help lift the scourge of poverty from less 
fortunate. This co-operation in this matter will provide both for 
the necessary sharing of this burden and in bringing about still further 
increases in mutually profitable trade.   New Nations, and 
others struggling with the problems of development, will progress only- 
regardless of any outside help- if they demonstrate faith in their 
own destiny and use their own resources to fulfill it. Moreover, 
progress in a national transformation can be only gradually earned; 
there is no easy and quick way to follow from the oxcart to the jet plane. 
But, just as we drew on Europe for assistance in our earlier years, 
so now do these new and emerging nations that do have this faith 
and determination deserve help.   Respecting their need, one of 
the major focal points of our concern is the South-Asian region. 
Here, 
in two nations alone, are almost five hundred million people, all working, 
and working hard, to raise their standards, and in doing so, to 
make of themselves a strong bulwark against the spread of an ideology 
that would destroy liberty.   I cannot express to you the depth 
of my conviction that, in our own and free world interest, we must co-operate 
with others to help these people achieve their legitimate ambitions, 
as expressed in their different multi-year plans. Through the 
World Bank and other instrumentalities, as well as through individual 
action by every nation in position to help, we must squarely face 
this titanic challenge.   I shall continue to urge the American 
people, in the interests of their own security, prosperity and peace, 
to make sure that their own part of this great project be amply and 
cheerfully supported. Free world decisions in this matter may spell the 
difference between world disaster and world progress in freedom.

Other countries, some of which I visited last month, have similar 
needs.   A common meeting ground is desirable for those nations 
which are prepared to assist in the development effort. During the 
past year I have discussed this matter with the leaders of several Western 
nations.   Because of its wealth of experience, the Organization 
for European Economic Cooperation could help with the initial 
studies needed. The goal is to enlist all available economic resources 
in the industrialized Free World, especially private investment 
capital.   By extending this help, we hope to make possible the 
enthusiastic enrollment of these nations under freedom's banner. 
No more startling contrast to a system of sullen satellites could be 
imagined.   If we grasp this opportunity to build an age of productive 
partnership between the less fortunate nations and those that have 
already achieved a high state of economic advancement, we will make 
brighter the outlook for a world order based upon security and freedom. 
Otherwise, the outlook could be dark indeed. We face, indeed, what 
may be a turning point in history, and we must act decisively and wisely. 
##

As a nation we can successfully pursue these objectives 
only from a position of broadly based strength.   No matter how 
earnest is our quest for guaranteed peace, we must maintain a high degree 
of military effectiveness at the same time we are engaged in negotiating 
the issue of arms reduction. Until tangible and mutually enforceable 
arms reduction measures are worked out we will not weaken the 
means of defending our institutions.   America possesses an enormous 
defense power. It is my studied conviction that no nation will ever 
risk general war against us unless we should become so foolish as 
to neglect the defense forces we now so powerfully support. It is world-wide 
knowledge that any power which might be tempted today to attack 
the United States by surprise, even though we might sustain great 
losses, would itself promptly suffer a terrible destruction. But I once 
again assure all peoples and all nations that the United States, 
except in defense, will never turn loose this destructive power.

During the past year, our long-range striking power, unmatched today 
in manned bombers, has taken on new strength as the Atlas intercontinental 
ballistic missile has entered the operational inventory. In 
fourteen recent test launchings, at ranges of five thousand miles, <Atlas> 
has been striking on an average within two miles of the target. 
This is less than the length of a jet runway- well within the circle 
of destruction. 
Incidentally, there was an <Atlas> firing last 
night. From all reports so far received, its performance conformed to 
the high standards I have just described. Such performance is a great 
tribute to American scientists and engineers, who in the past five 
years have had to telescope time and technology to develop these long-range 
ballistic missiles, where America had none before.   This 
year, moreover, growing numbers of nuclear powered submarines will 
enter our active forces, some to be armed with Polaris missiles. These 
remarkable ships and weapons, ranging the oceans, will be capable of 
accurate fire on targets virtually anywhere on earth.   To meet 
situations of less than general nuclear war, we continue to maintain 
our carrier forces, our many service units abroad, our always ready 
Army strategic forces and Marine Corps divisions, and the civilian 
components. The continuing modernization of these forces is a costly 
but necessary process. It is scheduled to go forward at a rate which 
will steadily add to our strength.   The deployment of a portion 
of these forces beyond our shores, on land and sea, is persuasive demonstration 
of our determination to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our 
allies for collective security. Moreover, I have directed that steps 
be taken to program on a longer range basis our military assistance to 
these allies. This is necessary for a sounder collective defense system.

Next I refer to our program in space exploration, which 
is often mistakenly supposed to be an integral part of defense research 
and development.   We note that, first, America has already 
made 
great contributions in the past two years to the world's fund of 
knowledge of astrophysics and space science. These discoveries are of 
present interest chiefly to the scientific community; but they are 
important foundation stones for more extensive exploration of outer space 
for the ultimate benefit of all mankind.   Second, our military 
missile program, going forward so successfully, does not suffer from 
our present lack of very large rocket engines, which are necessary 
in distant space exploration. I am assured by experts that the thrust 
of our present missiles is fully adequate for defense requirements.

Third, the United States is pressing forward in the development 
of large rocket engines to place vehicles of many tons into space 
for exploration purposes.   Fourth, in the meantime, it is necessary 
to remember that we have only begun to probe the environment immediately 
surrounding the earth. Using launch systems presently available, 
we are developing satellites to scout the world's weather; satellite 
relay stations to facilitate and extend communications over the 
globe; for navigation aids to give accurate bearings to ships and 
aircraft; and for perfecting instruments to collect and transmit the 
data we seek.   Fifth, we have just completed a year's experience 
with our new space law. I believe it deficient in certain particulars. 
Suggested improvements will be submitted to the Congress shortly. 
##

The accomplishment of the many tasks I have alluded to requires 
the continuous strengthening of the spiritual, intellectual, 
and 
economic sinews of American life. The steady purpose of our society 
is to assure justice, before God, for every individual. We must be 
ever alert that freedom does not wither through the careless amassing 
of restrictive controls or the lack of courage to deal boldly with the 
issues of the day.   A year ago, when I met with you, the nation 
was emerging from an economic downturn, even though the signs of resurgent 
prosperity were not then sufficiently convincing to the doubtful. 
Today our surging strength is apparent to everyone. 1960 promises 
to be the most prosperous year in our history.   Yet we continue 
to be afflicted by nagging disorders. Among current problems that 
require solutions, participated in by citizens as well as government, 
are:   the need to protect the public interest in situations of 
prolonged labor-management stalemate;   the persistent refusal 
to come to grips with a critical problem in one sector of American agriculture;

the continuing threat of inflation, together with 
the persisting tendency toward fiscal irresponsibility;   in certain 
instances the denial to some of our citizens of equal protection 
of the law.

The group, upon the issuance of its first press release on December 
21, 1957, designated itself a "Committee of Investigation". 
In the course of its inquiry, it took testimony from only seven witnesses. 
It heard Bang-Jensen twice and his lawyer, Adolf A& Berle, 
Jr&, once.   Its second press release was on January 15, 
1958, and it recommended that the secret papers be destroyed. It also 
implied that Paul Bang-Jensen had been irresponsible.   On 
January 18, Ernest Gross conducted a press conference at the U&N& 
lasting an hour. Here, he openly attacked Bang-Jensen and referred 
to his "aberrant conduct". This conference was held despite 
Stavropoulos' assurance to Adolf Berle, who was leaving the same 
day for Puerto Rico, that nothing would be done until his return on 
January 22, except that the Secretary General would probably order 
the list destroyed.   On January 24 Paul Bang-Jensen, accompanied 
by Adolf Berle, was met by Dragoslav Protitch and Colonel 
Frank Begley, former Police Chief of Farmington, Conn&, and now 
head of U&N& special police.   The four, bundled in overcoats, 
mounted to the wind-swept roof of the U&N&   There, 
Begley lit a fire in a wire basket, and Bang-Jensen dropped four 
sealed envelopes into the flames. In one of these he said were notes 
on the identities of the eighty-one refugees.   The method of destroying 
the evidence embarrassed Paul Bang-Jensen. He knew it would 
be implied that it was done in this way at his insistence. He was 
right, and Peter Marshall could not help but recall Andrew Cordier's 
words on the subject, "Well, it seemed as good a place as any 
to do the job".   The Gross group had been formed for the express 
purpose of advising the Secretary General. Hammarskjold's supposed 
desire to seek outside legal advice in the guise of Ernest Gross 
is illusion, at best. Gross's being "outside" the U&N& 
applied only to a physical state, not an objective one. But by the 
time the papers were finally disposed of, the group had informed the 
world of its purpose, its recommendations, and its belief that Paul 
Bang-Jensen was not of sound mind.   Shortly the group would issue 
its report to the Secretary General, recommending Paul Bang-Jensen's 
dismissal from the United Nations. The contents of this 
195-page document would become known to many before it would become known 
to the man it was written about. ##

"Until this Hungarian 
Committee matter came up, Bang-Jensen was a fine and devoted individual. 
I had known him for some years, when I was a delegate and before, 
and this manner had never been his".   Ernest A& Gross 
leaned back in his chair and told Peter Marshall how Secretary General 
Dag Hammarskjold had, on December 4,1957, called him in as a 
private lawyer to review Bang-Jensen's conduct "relating to his 
association with the Special Committee on the problem of Hungary". 
The result was the "Gross Report", prepared by Gross, as chairman, 
with the assistance of two U&N& Under Secretaries, Constantin 
Stavropoulos and Philippe de Seynes.   "Yes", Gross 
went on, "Bang-Jensen was an up-and-coming young man. He had 
always done well. Never well known, but he had done his work competently 
**h".   Gross had received Marshall courteously and they 
were discussing the case. "You know", the lawyer said, "it's 
difficult to talk like this about a man who can't answer back".

Gross was behind a clean-top desk, only a manila folder before 
him. Marshall sat in one of the several leather chairs. Outside the 
office windows, twenty-four stories above Wall Street, a light rain 
was falling.   "Mr& Gross, your report says that 'our 
function is investigative and advisory and does not in any way derogate 
from or prejudice Mr& Bang-Jensen's rights as a staff member'. 
You know, Bang-Jensen characterized your Committee as having prejudged 
his case".   Gross swung his swivel chair. "Well, 
how could that have been? I don't consider that he was prejudged. 
We were given a job and we carried it out, and later, his case was taken 
up by the Disciplinary Committee **h.   "We have nothing 
to hide under a bushel. We did our job, Mr& Stavropoulos and Mr& 
de Seynes and myself, taking evidence from a number of people".

"What did you think about his mental state"?   "I 
think our report sums up our finding", Gross answered. "Don't 
forget, here was a man who had been accusing his colleagues for almost 
a year of willfully attempting to present an incorrect report **h.

"This was not merely alleging errors, but was carried out 
by day-after-day allegations in memos, written charges of serious consequence 
**h.   "This is a distressing thing. Supposing you or 
I were being accused in this manner, and yet we were doing our level 
best to carry on our work. No organization can carry on like that.

"I've been in government and I can tell some pretty hairy 
stories 
about personnel difficulties, so I know what a problem he was".

"What I'd like you to comment on is the criticism leveled 
at your Committee".   "What do you mean"? 
"For instance, regarding the fact that the Gross Committee issued 
two interim announcements to the press during its investigation. You 
know Bang-Jensen was told the Committee was 'to convey its views, 
suggestions and recommendations to the Secretary General'. In his 
own words, Bang-Jensen 'took it for granted that the Group would 
report to the Secretary General privately and not in public'. He 
claimed that the release of the preliminary findings was 'prejudicial 
to his position'".   Gross bristled. For an instant he 
glared speechless at Marshall. "Listen", he said. "I thought 
the entire report was going to be confidential from beginning to end. 
But you know Bang-Jensen launched an active campaign against us in 
the press. It was getting so that we, the Committee, were being tried. 
You can find it in the papers".   "Well, as a matter of 
fact, I've looked through back-issue files of New York papers for 
December, 1957, and haven't found a great deal"-   Gross 
shot another look at Marshall. "It wasn't necessarily all here 
in New York. Don't forget the foreign press".   "Then 
what about the second interim public announcement? This cited Bang-Jensen's 
'aberrant conduct'".   "The reason for that 
report was to settle the matter of the list. As far as I'm concerned, 
it was a separate matter from the general Committee study of Bang-Jensen's 
conduct. The January fifteen report recommended that 
Bang-Jensen be instructed to burn the list- the papers- in the presence 
of a U&N& Security Officer".   "How about your 
press conference three days later- what was the reason for that? 
Bang-Jensen said you told correspondents that you had checked in advance 
to make sure the term 'aberrant conduct' was not libelous. 
He claimed you made other slanderous allegations".   Gross paused 
and repeated himself. "The entire object of the press conference 
was to clarify the problem of the list, since many in the press were 
querying the U&N& about it. What was the list? I don't know. 
Bang-Jensen never explained what the documents or papers were that 
he had in his possession.   "It was foolish of him to keep 
them, whatever they were. He could have been blackmailed, or his family 
might have been threatened. Of course the matter caught the public's 
attention. We attempted to conclude this, and did so by having 
the papers burned.   Hammerskjold didn't like the way it was 
carried out. It was a sort of Go^tterda^mmerung affair. Hammarskjold 
believes the U&N& is an organization that settles matters 
in a procedural way **h".   Peter Marshall reflected. If Hammarskjold 
had not wanted the list disposed of in this manner, and if 
Bang-Jensen had not wanted it- who had ordered it?   "Mr& 
Gross, concerning the formation of your Committee, there's the 
fact that you have been a legal adviser to the U&N& in the past; 
as I understand it, Mr& Hammarskjold wanted <outside> advice. 
Could you comment on that"?   "I've served as a counsel 
for the U&N& for some years, specializing particularly in real 
estate matters or other problems that the regular U&N& legal 
staff might not be equipped to handle. Mr& Stavropoulos is the U&N& 
legal chief and a very good man, but he is not fully versed on 
some technical points of American law".   "What did you think 
about Bang-Jensen's contention of errors and omissions in the 
Hungarian report"? Marshall asked.   "Those"! Gross 
answered. "Why, Mick Shann went over and over the report with Alsing 
Andersen, trying to check them out. Even after the incident between 
Bang-Jensen and Shann in the Delegates' Lounge **h and this 
was not the way the <Chicago Tribune> presented it".   Gross 
reached in his desk and pulled out two newspaper clippings. One 
was an article on the U&N& by Alice Widener from the <Cincinnati 
Enquirer>. The other was by Chesly Manley in the <Chicago 
Daily Tribune>.   Gross pointed to the Manley story. "I 
know Ches, he's a friend of mine. He probably didn't mean to write 
it this way, or maybe he did. There wasn't any 'violent argument' 
between Bang-Jensen and Shann, as the <Tribune> puts it. That 
implies that Shann was on the enemy side. You see what I mean? 
How it's phrased there- the word 'violent'.   "The 
case was that Bang-Jensen came up to Shann claiming he had found further 
errors in the report. 'I've found errors and I want you to 
look them over'. So once again Shann had to argue with him about 
this. But it wasn't a violent discussion. And after all this, Shann 
went over all that Bang-Jensen had brought up".   (Shann's 
own report, Peter Marshall reflected, describes the encounter as 
"immoderate". Bang-Jensen was in "hysterical condition".)

Gross stopped briefly, then went on. "Shann was responsible 
for the report. He has felt terrible about all this. It was a good 
report, he did all he could to make it a good report. When I speak 
of how Shann felt, I know well. Don't forget, I am an old member 
of the club, a former delegate. I think you are being unfair to take 
these things up now.   "You know, this hits in many areas. It 
appeals to those who were frustrated in the outcome of the Hungarian 
situation. Don't forget, the U&N& did no more than the United 
States did **h it takes a great deal of sophisticated thought to 
get the impact of this fact". 

#CHAPTER 22#

FROM THE HOME 
of his friend, Henrik Kauffmann, in Washington, D&C&, Paul 
Bang-Jensen sent a telegram dated December 9, 1957, to Ernest Gross. 
It said in part:   "**h the matters to be considered are 
obviously of a grave character, and I therefore respectfully request 
that the hearing be postponed for two weeks in order that I might make 
adequate preparation".   Ernest Gross replied the next day, 
putting the suspended diplomat's fears to rest. "This reveals some 
misunderstanding on your part. The group conducting the review is 
not holding formal hearings. It wished to pursue, in the course of this 
review, questions arising from the body of material already in its 
possession **h".   It sounded like a fair enough invitation, 
Peter Marshall reflected, and Bang-Jensen must have thought so too, 
because on the thirteenth, he met the group of three on the thirty-sixth 
floor of the U&N&. There, Ernest Gross further assured him:

"We were requested by the Secretary General, as I understand 
it, to discuss with you such matters as appear to us to be relevant, 
and we are not of course either a formal group or a committee 
in the sense of being guided by any rules or regulations of the Secretariat. 
<The only rules which I think we shall follow will be those 
of common sense, justice, and fairness">.   Peter Marshall 
noted that Bang-Jensen had later referred to his two interviews with 
the Gross group as "unfortunate experiences", and after his second 
meeting on the sixteenth the Dane refused to attend further hearings 
without legal counsel. Marshall pondered the reason for this, and 
pondered too the replacement of one member of the three-man group.

J& A& C& Robertson, after serving Gross one week, left 
for England. 
Fortunately the hole was found at last and plugged. Another week passed 
and even the missionaries were enjoying the voyage. The sickness 
was gone and, after all, the two young couples were on their honeymoon.

The only lasting difficulty was the food. In spite of Pickering 
Dodge's explicit instructions regarding variation of meals, the 
food did not seem the same as at home. "Everything tasted differently 
from what it does on land and those things I was most fond of at 
home, I loathed the most here", Ann noted. At last they concluded 
that the heavy, full feeling in their stomachs was due to lack of exercise. 
Walking was the remedy, they decided, but a deck full of chicken 
coops and pigpens was hardly suitable. Skipping was the alternative. 
A rope was found and, like children in school, the missionaries 
skipped for hours at a time. Finally, tiring of so monotonous a form 
of exercise, they decided to dance instead. It was much more fun, reminding 
the girls of their old carefree days in the Hasseltine frolics 
room at Bradford. The weather turned warmer and with it came better 
appetites, although Harriet was still a little off-color. She could 
not face coffee or tea without milk, and was always craving types of 
food that were not available aboard a sailing ship. By now she was sure 
she was going to have a baby, deciding it would be born in India 
or Burma that November. She was more excited than frightened at the 
prospect of having her first child in a foreign land.   The crew 
of the <Caravan> never failed to amaze Ann, who during her stay 
in Salem must frequently have overheard strong sailorly language. She 
wrote in her journal, "I have not heard the least profane language 
since I have been on board the vessel. This is very uncommon".

She was now enjoying the voyage very much. Even the first wave 
of homesickness had passed, although there were moments when Captain 
Heard pointed out on his compass the direction of Bradford that she 
felt a little twinge at her heart. As for Adoniram, she found him 
to be "the kindest" of husbands.   On Sundays, with the permission 
of Captain Heard, who usually attended with two of his officers, 
services were held in the double cabin. Sometimes a ship would be 
sighted and the <Caravan> pass so close that people could easily 
be seen on the distant deck. Captain Heard did not communicate with 
any strange vessels because of the possibility of war between the United 
States and Britain. As warmer temperatures were encountered Ann 
and Harriet were introduced to the pleasures of bathing daily in salt 
water.   When May came the <Caravan> had already crossed 
the Equator. They were sailing round the Cape of Good Hope; the 
weather had turned wet and cold. At this time Harriet wrote in a letter 
which after their finally landing in India was sent to her mother:

"I care not how soon we reach Calcutta, and are placed 
in a still room, with a bowl of milk and a loaf of Indian bread. I 
can hardly think of this simple fare without exclaiming, oh, what a luxury. 
I have been so weary of the excessive rocking of the vessel, and 
the almost intolerable smell after the rain, that I have done little 
more than lounge on the bed for several days. But I have been blest 
with excellent spirits, and to-day have been running about the deck, 
and <dancing> in our room for <exercise>, as well as ever".

While studying at the seminary in Andover, Adoniram had been working 
on a New Testament translation from the original Greek. He 
had brought it along to continue during the voyage. There was one particular 
word that troubled his conscience. This was the Greek word most 
often translated as "baptism".   Born a Congregationalist, 
he had been baptized as a tiny baby in the usual manner by having 
a few drops of water sprinkled on his head, yet nowhere in the whole of 
the New Testament could he find a description of anybody being baptized 
by sprinkling. John the Baptist used total immersion in the River 
Jordan for believers; even Christ was baptized by this method. 
The more Adoniram 
looked at the Greek word for baptism, the more unhappy 
he became over its true meaning.   As was only natural he 
confided his searchings to Ann, conceding ruefully that it certainly 
looked as if their own 
Congregationalists were wrong and the Baptists right.

Ann was very troubled. By this time she had learned that 
it was futile to argue with her young husband, yet the uncomfortable 
fact remained: the American Congregationalists were sending them as 
missionaries to the Far East and paying their salaries. What would 
happen if Adoniram "changed horses in midstream"? Baptists and 
Congregationalists in New England were on friendly terms. How embarrassing 
it would be if the newly appointed Congregationalist missionaries 
should suddenly switch their own beliefs in order to embrace Baptist 
teachings!   "If you become a Baptist, I will not", 
Ann informed her husband, but sweeping her threat aside Adoniram 
continued to search for an answer to the personal dilemma in which he 
found himself.   By early June they were a hundred miles off the 
coast of Ceylon, by which time all four missionaries were hardened 
seafarers. Even Harriet could boldly write, "I know not how it is; 
but I hear the thunder roll; see the lightning flash; and the 
waves threatening to swallow up the vessel; and yet remain unmoved".

Ann thrilled to the sight of a delicate butterfly and two 
strange tropical birds. Land was near, and on June 12, one hundred 
and fourteen days after leaving America, they actually saw, twenty miles 
away, the coast of Orissa.   Captain Heard gave orders for 
the ship to be anchored in the Bay of Bengal until he could obtain 
the services of a reputable pilot to steer her through the shallow waters.

Sometimes ships waited for days for such a man, but Captain 
Heard was lucky. Next day a ship arrived with an English pilot, 
his leadsman, an English youth, and the first Hindu the Judsons and 
Newells had ever seen. A little man with a "a dark copper color" 
skin, he was wearing "calico trousers and a white cotton short gown". 
Ann was plainly disappointed in his appearance. "He looks 
as feminine as you can imagine", she decided.   The pilot possessed 
excellent skill at his calling; all day long the <Caravan> 
slowly made her way through the difficult passages. Alas, to Ann's 
consternation, his language while thus employed left much to be desired. 
He swore so loudly at the top of his voice, that she didn't get 
any sleep all the next night.   Next morning the <Caravan> was 
out of the treacherous Bay. Relieved of the major part of his responsibility 
for the safety of the ship, the pilot's oaths became fewer. 
Slowly she moved up the Hooghli River, a mouth of the mighty Ganges, 
toward Calcutta.   Ann was entranced with the view, as 
were her husband and friends. Running across the deck, which was empty 
now that the livestock had been killed and eaten, they sniffed the spice-laden 
breezes that came from the shore, each pointing out new and 
exciting wonders to the other.   Out came the journal and in it 
went Ann's own description of the scene:   "On each side 
of the Hoogli, where we are now sailing, are the Hindoo cottages, as 
thick together as the houses in our seaports. They are very small, 
and in the form of haystacks, without either chimney or windows. They 
are situated in the midst of trees, which hang over them, and appear 
truly romantick. The grass and fields of rice are perfectly green, and 
herds of cattle are everywhere feeding on the banks of the river, and 
the natives are scattered about differently employed. Some are fishing, 
some driving the team, and many are sitting indolently on the banks 
of the river. The pagodas we have passed are much larger than the 
houses".   Harriet was just as delighted. Where were the hardships 
she had expected? She was certain now that it would be no harder 
to bear her child here in such pleasant surroundings than at home 
in the big white house in Haverhill. With childlike innocence she wrote 
of the Indians as "walking with fruit and umbrellas in their hands, 
with the tawny children around them **h. This is the most delightful 
<trial> I have ever had", she decided.   The Indians 
who came aboard ship to collect the mail also interested her greatly, 
even if she was suitably shocked, according to the customs of the society 
in which she had been reared, to find them "naked, except a piece 
of cotton cloth wrapped around their middle".   At last they 
saw Calcutta, largest city of Bengal and the <Caravan's> destination. 
Founded August 24, 1690 by Job Charnock of the East India 
Company, and commonly called "The City of Palaces", it seemed 
a vast and elegant place to Ann Hasseltine Judson. Solid brick 
buildings painted dazzling white, large domes and tall, picturesque palms 
stretched as far as the eye could see, while the wharves and harbor 
were filled with tall-masted sailing ships. The noise stunned her. 
Crowds flocked through the waterfront streets chattering loudly in their 
strange-sounding Bengali tongue.   Harriet's mouth watered 
with anticipation when after months of dreaming she sat down at last 
to her much-craved milk and fresh bread. Ann, pleased to see her friend 
happy, was intrigued by the new fruits a friend of Captain Heard 
had sent on board for their enjoyment. Cautiously she sampled her first 
pineapple and another fruit whose taste she likened to that of "a 
rich pear". Though she did not then know its name, this strange new 
fruit was a banana. 

#SIX#

The first act of Adoniram and Samuel 
on reaching Calcutta was to report at the police station, a necessity 
when landing in East India Company territory. On the way they 
tried to discover all they could about Burma, and they were disturbed 
to find that Michael Symes's book had not presented an altogether 
true picture. He had failed to realize that the Burmese were not really 
treating him as the important visitor he considered himself. They 
were in fact quietly laughing at him, for their King wished to have 
nothing to do with the Western world. When Captain John Gibault 
of Salem had visited Burma in 1793 his ship, the <Astra>, had been 
promptly commandeered and taken by her captors up the Irrawaddy River. 
Although after much trouble he did manage to get it back, he discovered 
there was no trade to be had. All Captain Gibault took back 
to Salem were a few items for the town's East India Museum. A 
year later another Salem ship returned from Burma with a cargo of gum 
lacquer which nobody wanted to buy. After that Salem ships decided 
to bypass unfriendly Burma.   The Burmese appeared to have little 
knowledge of British power or any idea of trade. They despised 
foreigners. Cruel Burmese governors could, on the slightest whim, take 
a man's life. As for missionaries, even if they succeeded in getting 
into the country they probably would not be allowed to preach the 
Christian faith to the Burmans. Unspeakable tortures or even execution 
might well be their fate.   "Go back to America or any 
other place", well-meaning friends of Captain Heard advised them, 
"but put thoughts of going to Burma out of your heads".   Somewhat 
daunted, the two American missionaries reached the police station 
where they were questioned by a most unfriendly clerk. When he discovered 
they had received from the Company's Court of Directors 
no permission to live in India, coupled with the fact that they were 
Americans who had been sent to Asia to convert "the heathen", he 
became more belligerent than ever.   They explained that they 
desired only to stop in India until a ship traveling on to Burma could 
be found. 
She describes, first, the imaginary reaction of a foreigner puzzled by 
this "unseasonable exultation"; he is answered by a confused, 
honest Englishman. The reasons for the Whig joy on this occasion are 
found to be their expectation of regaining control of the government, 
their delight at the prospect of a new war, their hopes of having the 
Tories hanged, and so on. As for the author of the <Englishman,> 
Mrs& Manley sarcastically deplores that the sole defense of the 
Protestant cause should be left to "<Ridpath, Dick Steele,> and 
their Associates, with the Apostles of <Young Man's> Coffee-House".

Another controversy typical of the war between the 
<Englishman> and the <Examiner> centered on Robert (later Viscount) 
Molesworth, a Whig leader in Ireland and a member of the Irish 
Privy Council. On December 21, the day that the Irish House 
of Commons petitioned for removal of Sir Constantine Phipps, their 
Tory Lord Chancellor, Molesworth reportedly made this remark on the 
defense of Phipps by Convocation: "They that have turned the 
world upside down, are come hither also". Upon complaints from the 
Lower House of Convocation to the House of Lords, he was removed 
from the Privy Council, his remark having been represented as a blasphemous 
affront to the clergy. Steele, who had earlier praised Molesworth 
in <Tatler> No& 189, now defended him in <Englishman> 
No& 46, depicting his removal as a setback to the Constitution. On 
the other hand, Molesworth was naturally assailed in the Tory press. 
Swift, in the Dublin edition of <A Preface to the Bishop of Sarum's 
Introduction,> indicated his feelings by including Molesworth, 
along with Toland, Tindal, and Collins, in the group of those 
who, like Burnet, are engaged in attacking all Convocations of the clergy. 
In the same way he coupled Molesworth and Wharton in a letter 
to Archbishop King, and he had earlier described him as "the worst 
of them" in some "Observations" on the Irish Privy Council 
submitted to Oxford. A month later, in <The Publick Spirit of 
the Whigs,> he used Steele's defense of Molesworth as evidence of 
his disrespect for the clergy, calling Steele's position an affront 
to the "whole Convocation of <Ireland>". On this issue, then, 
as on so many in these months, Steele and Swift took rigidly opposed 
points of view.   In the early months of 1714, the battle 
between Swift and Steele over the issue of the Succession entered its 
major phase. The preliminaries ended with the publication of Steele's 
<Crisis> on January 19, and from that point on the fight proceeded 
at a rapid pace. In answer to <The Crisis,> Swift produced 
<The Publick Spirit of the Whigs,> his most extensive and bitter 
attack on his old friend. By this time, as we shall see, the Tories 
were already planning to "punish" Steele for his political writing 
by expelling him from the House of Commons. Despite his defense 
of himself in the final paper of the <Englishman> and in his speech 
before the House, their efforts were successful. Steele lost his 
seat in Parliament, and his personal quarrel with Swift, by now a public 
issue, thus reached its climax.   Of all the Whig tracts 
written in support of the Succession, <The Crisis> is perhaps the 
most significant. Certainly it is the most pretentious and elaborate. 
Hanoverian agents assisted in promoting circulation, said to have reached 
40,000, and if one may judge by the reaction of Swift and other 
government writers, the work must have had considerable impact. Steele's 
main business here is to arouse public opinion to the immediate 
danger of a Stuart Restoration. To this end, the first and longest 
section of the tract cites all the laws enacted since the Revolution 
to defend England against the "Arbitrary Power of a Popish Prince". 
In his comment on these laws Steele sounds all the usual notes 
of current Whig propaganda, ranging from a criticism of the Tory 
peace to an attack on the dismissal of Marlborough; but his principal 
theme is that the intrigues of the Tories, "our Popish or Jacobite 
Party", pose an immediate threat to Church and State. Like 
Burnet, he deplores the indifference of the people in the face of the 
crisis. Treasonable books striking at the Hanoverian Succession, 
he complains, are allowed to pass unnoticed. In this connection, Swift, 
too, is drawn in for attack: "The Author of the Conduct of 
the Allies has dared to drop Insinuations about altering the Succession". 
In his effort to stir the public from its lethargy, Steele 
goes so far as to list Catholic atrocities of the sort to be expected 
in the event of a Stuart Restoration, and, with rousing rhetoric, he 
asserts that the only preservation from these "Terrours" is to 
be 
found in the laws he has so tediously cited. "It is no time", he 
writes, "to talk with Hints and Innuendos, but openly and honestly 
to profess our Sentiments before our Enemies have compleated and put 
their Designs in Execution against us".   Steele apparently 
professed his sentiments in this book too openly and honestly for his 
own good, since the government was soon to use it as evidence against 
him in his trial before the House. In the final issues of the <Englishman,> 
which ended just as the new session of Parliament began, 
he provided his enemies with still more ammunition. For example, No& 
56 printed the patent giving the Electoral Prince the title of Duke 
of Cambridge. In a few months the Duke was to be the center of 
a controversy of some significance on the touchy question of the Protestant 
Succession. At the order of the Dowager Electress, the Hanoverian 
agents, supported by the Whig leaders, demanded that a writ 
of summons be issued which would call the Duke to England to sit in 
Parliament, thus further insuring the Succession by establishing a Hanoverian 
Prince in England before the Queen's death. Anne was 
furious, and Bolingbroke advised that the request be refused. Oxford, 
realizing that the law required the issuance of the writ, took the opposite 
view, for which the Queen never forgave him. Accordingly the 
request was granted, but the Elector himself, who had not been consulted 
by his mother, rejected the proposal and recalled his agent Schu^tz, 
whose impolitic handling of the affair had caused the Hanoverian 
interest to suffer and had made Oxford's dismissal more likely 
than ever. Steele in this paper is indicating his sympathy for such a 
plan. A few days after this <Englishman> appeared, Defoe reported 
to Oxford that Steele was expected to move in Parliament that the 
Duke be called over; Defoe then commented, "If they Could Draw 
that young Gentleman into Their Measures They would show themselves 
quickly, for they are not asham'd to Say They want Onely a head 
to Make a beginning".   The final issue of the <Englishman,> 
No& 57 for February 15, ran to some length and was printed 
as a separate pamphlet, entitled <The Englishman: Being the Close 
of the Paper So-called>. Steele's purpose is to present a general 
defense of his political writing and a resume of the themes which 
had occupied him in the <Englishman;> but there is much here also 
which bears directly on his personal quarrel with Swift. Thus he complains, 
with considerable justice, that the Tory writers have resorted 
to libel instead of answering his arguments. His birth, education, 
and fortune, he says, have all been ridiculed simply because he has 
spoken with the freedom of an Englishman, and he assures the reader that 
"whoever talks with me, is speaking to a Gentleman born". As 
notable examples of this abuse, he quotes passages from the <Examiner,> 
"that Destroyer of all things", and <The Character of Richard 
Steele,> which he here attributes to Swift. Though put in rather 
maudlin terms, Steele's defense of himself has a reasonable basis. 
His point is simply that the Tories have showered him with personal 
satire, despite the fact that as a private subject he has a right 
to speak on political matters without affronting the prerogative of 
the Sovereign. He claims, too, that his political convictions are simply 
those which are called "Revolution Principles" and which are 
accepted by moderate men in both parties.   The final section 
of this pamphlet is of special interest in a consideration of Steele's 
relations with Swift. It purports to be a letter from Steele to 
a friend at court, who, in Miss Blanchard's opinion, could only be 
meant as Swift. Steele first answers briefly the charges which his 
"dear old Friend" has made about his pamphlet on Dunkirk and 
his 
<Crisis>. Then he launches into an attack on the Tory ministers, 
whom he calls the "New Converts"; by this term he means to ridicule 
their professions of acting in the interest of the Church despite 
their own education and manner of life- a gibe, in other words, 
at the "Presbyterianism" in Harley's family and at Bolingbroke's 
reputed impiety. The Tory leaders, he insinuates, are cynically 
using the Church as a political "By-word" to increase party friction 
and keep themselves in power. This is the principal point made 
in this final section of <Englishman> No& 57, and it caps Steele's 
efforts in his other writing of these months to counteract the 
notion of the Tories as a "Church Party" supported by the body 
of the clergy.   Next, Steele turns his attention to the "Courtier" 
he is addressing. He explains that there are sometimes honorable 
courtiers, but that too often a man who succeeds at court does not 
hesitate to sacrifice his Sovereign and nation to his own avarice 
and ambition. Such, he implies, is the case with his friend, who is not 
really a new convert himself but merely a favorer of new converts. 
If "Jack the Courtier" is really to be taken as Swift, the following 
remark is obviously Steele's comment on Swift's change of 
parties and its effect on their friendship: "I assure you, dear 
<Jack,> when I first found out such an Allay in you, as makes you 
of so malleable a Constitution, that you may be worked into any Form 
an Artificer pleases, I foresaw I should not enjoy your Favour much 
longer". He closes his "letter" by demanding that Dunkirk 
be demolished, that the Pretender be forced to move farther away from 
the coast of England, and that the Queen and the House of Hanover 
come to a better understanding. The last point was soon to be included 
in the "seditious" remarks used against him in Parliament.

The <Examiner,> during Steele's trial a month later, printed 
an answer from the "courtier" addressed to "R& S&" at 
Button's coffee-house. He reviews Steele's entrance into politics 
and finds that his present difficulties are due to his habit of attributing 
to his own abilities and talents achievements which more properly 
should be credited to the indulgence of his friends. Once more, 
in other words, Steele is said to be indebted to Swift for his "wit"; 
this was the form in which their private feud most often appeared 
in the Tory press, especially the <Examiner>. In <The Publick 
Spirit of the Whigs,> it may be noted, Swift himself contemptuously 
dismissed Steele's reference to his friend at court: "I 
suppose by the Style of <old Friend,> and the like, it must be some 
Body <there> of his own Level; among whom, his Party have indeed 
more <Friends> than I could wish".   On February 16, 
Steele took his seat in Parliament. By now he was undergoing a fresh 
torrent of abuse from Tory papers and pamphlets, and action was being 
taken to effect his punishment by expulsion from Parliament. On the 
very day that the parliamentary session began, another "Infamous 
Libel" appeared, entitled <A Letter from the Facetious Dr& 
Andrew Tripe, at Bath, to the Venerable Nestor Ironside>. It is 
filled with the usual personal abuse of Steele, especially of his physical 
appearance; in the opening paragraph, too, Steele is accused 
of extreme egotism, of giving "himself the preference to all the learned, 
his contemporaries, from Dr& Sw-ft himself, even down to 
Poet Cr-spe of the Customhouse". 
When Harold Arlen returned to California in the winter of 1944, it 
was to take up again a collaboration with Johnny Mercer, begun some 
years before. The film they did after his return was an inconsequential 
bit of nothing titled <Out of This World,> a satire on the Sinatra 
bobby-soxer craze. The twist lay in using Bing Crosby's voice 
on the sound track while leading man Eddie Bracken mouthed the 
words. If nothing else, at least two good songs came out of the project, 
"Out of This World" and "June Comes Around Every Year".

Though they would produce some very memorable and lasting 
songs, Arlen and Mercer were not given strong material to work on. 
Their first collaboration came close. Early in 1941 they were assigned 
to a script titled <Hot Nocturne>. It purported to be a reasonably 
serious attempt at a treatment of jazz musicians, their aims, their 
problems- the tug-of-war between the "pure" and the "commercial"- 
and seemed a promising vehicle, for the two men shared a 
common interest in jazz.   Johnny Mercer practically grew up with 
the sound of jazz and the blues in his ears. He was born in Savannah, 
Georgia, in 1909. His father, George A& Mercer, was descended 
from an honored Southern family that could trace its ancestry back 
to one Hugh Mercer, who had emigrated from Scotland in 1747.

The lyricist's father was a lawyer who had branched out into 
real estate. His second wife, Lillian, was the mother of John H& 
Mercer. By the age of six young Johnny indicated that he had the 
call. One day he followed the Irish Jasper Greens, the town band, 
to a picnic and spent the entire day listening, while his family spent 
the day looking. The disappearance caused his family to assign a full-time 
maid to keeping an eye on the boy. But one afternoon Mrs& 
Mercer met her; both were obviously on the way to the Mercer home. 
The mother inquired, "Where's Johnny, and why did you leave him"? 
"There was nothing else I could do", the maid answered, 
satisfied with a rather vague explanation. But Mrs& Mercer demanded 
more. The maid then told her, "Because he fired me".   With 
her son evidencing so strong a musical bent his mother could do little 
else but get him started on the study of music- though she waited 
until he was ten- beginning with the piano and following that with 
the trumpet. Young Mercer showed a remarkable lack of aptitude for 
both instruments. Still, he did like music making and even sang in 
the chapel choir of the Woodberry Forest School, near Orange, Virginia, 
where he sounded fine but did not matriculate too well. 
When he was fifteen John H& Mercer turned out his first song, a 
jazzy little thing he called "Sister Susie, Strut Your 
Stuff". 
If his scholarship and formal musicianship were not all they might have 
been, Mercer demonstrated at an early age that he was gifted with 
a remarkable ear for rhythm and dialect. From his playmates in Savannah, 
Mercer had picked up, along with a soft Southern dialect, traces 
also of the Gullah dialects of Africa. Such speech differences 
made him acutely aware of the richness and expressivness of language.

During the summers, while he was still in school, Mercer worked 
for his father's firm as a messenger boy. It generally took well 
into the autumn for the firm to recover from the summer's help. "We'd 
give him things to deliver, letters, checks, deeds and things 
like that", remembers his half-brother Walter, still in the real estate 
business in Savannah, "and learn days later that he'd absent-mindedly 
stuffed them into his pocket. There they stayed". 
This rather detached attitude toward life's encumbrances has seemed 
to be the dominant trait in Mercer's personality ever since. It 
is, however, a disarming disguise, or perhaps a shield, for not only has 
Mercer proved himself to be one of the few great lyricists over the 
years, but also one who can function remarkably under pressure. He 
has also enjoyed a successful career as an entertainer (his records have 
sold in the millions) and is a sharp businessman.   He has also 
an extraordinary conscience. In 1927 his father's business collapsed, 
and, rather than go bankrupt, Mercer senior turned his firm over 
to a bank for liquidation. He died before he could completely pay off 
his debts. Some years later the bank handling the Mercer liquidation 
received a check for $300,000, enough to clear up the debt. The check 
had been mailed from Chicago, the envelope bore no return address, 
and the check was not signed.   "That's Johnny", sighed 
the bank president, "the best-hearted boy in the world, but absent-minded". 
But Mercer's explanation was simple: "I made out 
the check and carried it around a few days unsigned- in case I lost 
it". When he remembered that he might have not signed the check, 
Mercer made out another for the same amount, instructing the bank to 
destroy the other- especially if he had happened to have absent-mindedly 
signed both of them.   When the family business failed, Mercer 
left school and on his mother's urging- for she hoped that he 
would become an actor- he joined a local little theater group. When 
the troupe traveled to New York to participate in a one-act-play competition- 
and won- Mercer, instead of returning with the rest of 
the company in triumph, remained in New York. He had talked one other 
member of the group to stay with him, but that friend had tired of 
not eating regularly and returned to Savannah. But Mercer hung on, 
living, after a fashion, in a Greenwich Village fourth-flight walk-up. 
"The place had no sink or washbasin, only a bathtub", his mother 
discovered when she visited him. "Johnny insisted on cooking a 
chicken dinner in my honor- he's always been a good cook- and I'll 
never forget him cleaning the chicken in the tub".   A story, 
no doubt apocryphal, for Mercer himself denies it, has him sporting 
a monacle in those Village days. Though merely clear glass, it 
was a distinctive trade mark for an aspiring actor who hoped to imprint 
himself upon the memories of producers. One day in a bar, so the legend 
goes, someone put a beer stein with too much force on the monacle 
and broke it. The innocent malfeasant, filled with that supreme sense 
of honor found in bars, insisted upon replacing the destroyed monacle- 
and did, over the protests of the former owner- with a square monacle. 
Mercer is supposed to have refused it with, "Anyone who wears 
a square monacle must be affected"!   Everett Miller, then 
assistant director for the <Garrick Gaieties>, a Theatre Guild 
production, needed a lyricist for a song he had written; he just 
happened not to need any actor at the moment, however. For him Mercer 
produced the lyric to "Out of Breath Scared to Death of You", 
introduced in that most successful of all the <Gaieties>, by Sterling 
Holloway. This 1930 edition also had songs in it by Vernon Duke 
and Ira Gershwin, by E& Y& Harburg and Duke, and by Harry 
Myers. Entrance into such stellar song writing company encouraged 
the burgeoning song writer to take a wife, Elizabeth Meehan, a dancer 
in the <Gaieties>. The Mercers took up residence in Brooklyn, 
and Mercer found a regular job in Wall Street "misplacing stocks 
and bonds".   When he heard that Paul Whiteman was looking 
for singers to replace the Rhythm Boys, Mercer applied and got the 
job, "not for my voice, I'm sure, but because I could write songs 
and material generally". While with the Whiteman band Mercer met 
Jerry Arlen. He had yet to meet Harold Arlen, for although they 
had "collaborated" on "Satan's Li'l Lamb", Mercer and 
Harburg had worked from a lead sheet the composer had furnished them. 
The lyric, Mercer remembers, was tailored to fit the unusual melody.

Mercer's Whiteman association brought him into contact 
with 
Hoagy Carmichael, whose "Snowball" Mercer relyriced as "Lazybones", 
in which form it became a hit and marked the real beginning 
of Mercer's song-writing career. After leaving Whiteman, Mercer 
joined the Benny Goodman band as a vocalist. With the help of Ziggy 
Elman, also in the band, he transformed a traditional Jewish melody 
into a popular song, "And the Angels Sing". The countrywide 
success of "Lazybones" and "And the Angels Sing" could only 
lead to Hollywood, where, besides Harold Arlen, Mercer collaborated 
with Harry Warren, Jimmy Van Heusen, Richard Whiting, Walter 
Donaldson, Jerome Kern, and Arthur Schwartz. Mercer has also 
written both music and lyrics for several songs. He may be the only 
song writer ever to have collaborated with a secretary of the U& S& 
Treasury; he collaborated on a song with William Hartman Woodin, 
who was Secretary of the Treasury, 1932-33.   When Johnny 
Mercer and Harold Arlen began their collaboration in 1940, Mercer, 
like Arlen, had several substantial film songs to his credit, among 
them "Hooray for Hollywood", "Ride, Tenderfoot, Ride", 
"Have You Got Any Castles, Baby?", and "Too Marvelous 
for Words" (all with Richard Whiting); with Harry Warren he 
did "The Girl Friend of the Whirling Dervish", "Jeepers Creepers", 
and "You Must Have Been a Beautiful Baby". Mercer's 
lyrics are characterized by an unerring ear for rhythmic nuances, 
a puckish sense of humor expressed in language with a colloquial flair. 
Though versatile and capable of turning out a ballad lyric with 
the best of them, Mercer's forte is a highly polished quasi-folk wit.

His casual, dreamlike working methods, often as not <in absentia>, 
were an abrupt change from Harburg's, so that Arlen had 
to adjust again to another approach to collaboration. There were times 
that he worked with both lyricists simultaneously.   Speaking 
of his work with Johnny Mercer, Arlen says, "Our working habits 
were strange. After we got a script and the spots for the songs were 
blocked out, we'd get together for an hour or so every day. While Johnny 
made himself comfortable on the couch, I'd play the tunes for 
him. He has a wonderfully retentive memory. After I would finish 
playing the songs, he'd just go away without a comment. I wouldn't 
hear from him for a couple of weeks, then he'd come around with the 
completed lyric".   Arlen is one of the few (possibly the only) 
composer Mercer has been able to work with so closely, for they held 
their meetings in Arlen's study. "Some guys bothered me", 
Mercer has said. "I couldn't write with them in the same room with 
me, but I could with Harold. He is probably our most original composer; 
he often uses very odd rhythms, which makes it difficult, and 
challenging, for the lyric writer".   While Arlen and Mercer 
collaborated on <Hot Nocturne>, Mercer worked also with Arthur 
Schwartz on another film, <Navy Blues>. Arlen, too, worked on 
other projects at the same time with old friend Ted Koehler. Besides 
doing a single song, "When the Sun Comes Out", they worked on 
the ambitious <Americanegro Suite>, for voices and piano, as well 
as songs for films.   The <Americanegro Suite> is in a sense 
an extension of the Cotton Club songs in that it is a collection 
of Negro songs, not for a night club, but for the concert stage. The 
work had its beginning in 1938 with an eight-bar musical strain to which 
Koehler set the words "There'll be no more work/ There'll 
be no 
more worry", matching the spiritual feeling of the jot. This grew 
into the song "Big Time Comin'". By September 1940 the suite 
had developed into a collection of six songs, "four spirituals, a 
dream, and a lullaby".   The Negro composer Hall Johnson studied 
the <Americanegro Suite> and said of it, "Of all the many 
songs written by white composers and employing what claims to be a Negroid 
idiom in both words and music, these six songs by Harold Arlen 
and Ted Koehler easily stand far out above the rest. Thoroughly 
modern in treatment, they are at the same time, full of simple sincerity 
which invariably characterizes genuine Negro folk-music and are by 
no means to be confused with the average 'Broadway Spirituals' 
which depend for their racial flavor upon sundry allusions to the 'Amen 
Corner', 'judgement day', 'Gabriel's horn', and a 
frustrated devil- with a few random 'Hallelujahs' thrown in for 
good measure.

I feel obliged to describe this cubbyhole. It had a single porcelain 
stall and but one cabinet for the chairing of the bards. It was 
here that the terror-stricken Dennis Moon played an unrehearsed role 
during the children's party. A much larger room, adjacent to the 
lavatory, served as a passageway to and from the skimpy toilet. That 
unused room was large enough for- well, say an elephant could get 
into it **h and, as a matter of fact, an elephant <did> **h   Something 
occurred on the morning of the children's party which may 
illustrate the kind of trouble our restricted toilet facilities caused 
us. It so happened that sports writer Arthur Robinson got out of the 
hospital that morning after promising his doctor that he would be back 
in 
an hour or two to continue his convalescence. Arthur Robinson traveled 
with the baseball clubs as staff correspondent for the <American>. 
He was ghost writer for Babe Ruth, whose main talent for literary 
composition was the signing of his autograph. Robbie was a war veteran 
with battle-shattered knees.   He arrived on crutches at the 
Newspaper Club with one of his great pals, Oliver Herford, artist, 
author, and foe of stupidity. Mr& Herford's appearance was that 
of a frustrated gnome. He seemed timid (<at first>), wore nose glasses 
from which a black ribbon dangled, and was no bigger than a jockey. 
Robinson asked Herford to escort him to the club's lavatory before 
they sat down for a highball and a game of cards. In the jakes, 
after Robbie and his crutches were properly stowed, Mr& Herford 
went to the adjoining facility. He had barely assumed his stance there 
when a fat fellow charged through the doorway. Without any regard for 
rest-room protocol, the hulking stranger almost knocked Herford off 
his pins. The artist-author said nothing, but stood to one side. He 
waited a long time. Nothing was said, nothing accomplished. The unrelieved 
stranger eventually turned away from the place of his- shall 
we dare say his Waterloo?- to go to the door.   Mr& Herford 
touched the fat man's arm. "Pardon me, sir. May I say that 
you have just demonstrated the truth of an old proverb- the younger 
Pliny's, if memory serves me- which, translated freely from the 
archaic Latin, says, 'The more haste, the less peed'".

Governor Alfred E& Smith was the official host at the children's 
party. United States Senator Royal S& Copeland was wearing 
the robes of Santa Claus and a great white beard; the Honorable 
Robert Wagner, Sr&, at that time a justice of the New York Supreme 
Court, was on the reception committee. I was in charge of the 
arrangements- which were soon enough disarranged.   I had had 
difficulties from the very first day. When, in my enthusiasm, I proposed 
the party, my city editor (who disliked the club and many of its 
members) tried to block my participation in the gala event. Even earlier 
than that he had resented the fact that I had been chosen to edit 
the club's <Reporter>.   City editor Victor Watson of the 
New York <American> was a man of brooding suspicions and mysterious 
shifts of mood. Mr& Hearst's telegraphic code word for Victor 
Watson was "fatboy". The staff saw in him the qualities of a 
Don Cossack, hence, as mentioned before, his nickname "the Hetman".

The Hetman's physical aspects were not those of a savage 
rider of the steppes. Indeed, he looked more like a well-fleshed 
lay brother of the Hospice of St& Bernard. Nor were his manners 
barbaric. He had a purring voice and poker player's immobility of features 
which somehow conveyed the feeling that he knew where all the 
bodies were buried. He was the son of a Scottish father and an American 
Jewish mother, long widowed, with whom he lived in a comfortable 
home in Flushing. He had worked in the newspaper business since he 
was nineteen years old, always for the Hearst service. From the very 
first he regarded himself as Mr& Hearst's disciple, defender, and 
afterward his prime minister, self-ordained.   It was said that 
the Hetman plotted to take over the entire Hearst newspaper empire 
one day by means of various coups: the destruction of editors who 
tried to halt his course, the unfrocking of publishers whose mistakes 
of judgment might be magnified in secret reports to Mr& Hearst. Whatever 
the Hetman's ambitions, his colleagues were kept ill at ease. 
Among the outstanding members of the Hearst cabinet whom he successfully 
opposed for a time were the great Arthur Brisbane, Bradford 
Merrill, S&S& Carvalho, and Colonel Van Hamm. He also disliked 
Runyon, for no good reason other than the fact that the Demon's 
talent was so marked as to put him well beyond the Hetman's say-so 
or his supervision.   Runyon, for his part, had a contemptuous 
regard for Mr& Watson. "He's a wrong-o", said Runyon, 
"and I wouldn't trust him as far as I could throw the Statue of 
Liberty".   Arthur "Bugs" Baer wrote to me just recently, 
"Vic wanted to die in harness, with his head towards the wagon. 
He supported his mother and his brother, who afterwards committed 
suicide. Watson told me that his brother always sent roses to his mother, 
blossoms bought with Vic's allowance to him. 'And would you 
believe it', Vic added, 'she likes him better than she does me. 
Why'"?   About the only time the Hetman seemed excited 
was 
when one of his own pet ideas was born. Then he would get to his feet, 
as though rising in honor of his own remarkable powers, and say almost 
invariably, "Gentlemen, this is an amazing story! It's bigger 
than the Armistice".   Some of the Hetman's "ideas" 
were dream-ridden, vaguely imparted, and at times preposterous. One 
day he assigned me to lay bare a "plot" by the Duponts to supply 
munitions to a wholly fictitious revolution he said was about to occur 
in Cuba. He said that his information was so secret that he would 
not be able to confide in me the origin of his pipeline tip.   "I 
can tell you this much", he said. It's bigger than the Armistice".

I worked for a day on this plainly ridiculous assignment 
and consulted several of my own well-informed sources. Then I spent 
the next two days at the baseball park and at Jack Doyle's pool 
parlors. When I returned to make my report, the Hetman did not remember 
having sent me on the secret mission. He was busy, he said, in 
having someone submit to a monkey-gland operation. And I was to go 
to work on that odd matter. I shall tell of it later on.   The 
Hetman had a strong liking for a story, any story which was to be had 
by means of much sleuthing or by roundabout methods. Most of my stories 
were obtained by simply seeking out the person who could give me 
the facts, and not as a rule by playing clever tricks.   One day 
I tired of following the Hetman's advice of "shadowing" and 
of the "ring-around-the-rosie" approach to a report that Enrico Caruso 
had pinched a lady's hip while visiting the Central Park monkey 
house. I explained my state of mind to artist Winsor McCay and 
to "Bugs" Baer. Mr& Baer obtained a supply of crepe hair and 
spirit-gum from an actor at the Friars. We fashioned beards, put 
them on, and reported to the Hetman at the city desk.   Mr& 
Baer had an auburn beard, like Longfellow's. Mr& McCay had on 
a sort of Emperor Maximilian beard and mustache. As for myself, I 
had on an enormous black "muff". This, together with a derby hat 
and horn-rim eyeglasses, gave me the appearance of a Russian nihilist.

"We are ready for your next mysterious assignment", said 
Mr& Baer to the Hetman. "Where to, sir"?   Mr& Watson 
did not have much humor in his make-up, but he managed a mirthless 
smile. Just then a reporter telephoned in from the Bronx to give 
the rewrite desk an account of a murder. The Hetman told me to take 
the story over the phone and to write it. While I was sitting at one 
of the rewrite telephones with my derby and my great beard, Arthur 
Brisbane whizzed in with some editorial copy in his hand. He paused 
for a moment to look at me, then went on to the city desk to deliver 
his "Today" column.   I thought it expedient to take off my 
derby, my glasses, and the beard; and also to change telephones. I 
managed to do this by the time the great A&B& returned to the place 
where he last had seen the fierce nihilist. He stood there staring 
with disbelief at the vacant desk. Then he wrinkled his huge brow 
and went slowly out of the room. He had a somewhat goggle-eyed expression. 
He had been "seeing things".   The Hetman's 
"ideas" 
for news stories or editorial campaigns were by no means always fruitless 
or lacking in merit. He campaigned successfully for the riddance 
of "Death Avenue" and also brought about the ending of pollution 
of metropolitan beaches by sewage. He exposed the bucket-shop racket 
with the able assistance of two excellent reporters, Nat Ferber 
and Carl Helm. In the conduct of these and many other campaigns, the 
Hetman proved to be a much abler journalist than his critics allowed.

It seems to me now, in a long backward glance, that many of 
the Hetman's conceits and odd actions- together with his grim posture 
when brandishing the hatchet in the name of Mr& Hearst- were 
keyed with the tragedy which was to close over him one day. Alone, 
rejected on every hand, divorced, and in financial trouble, he leaped 
from an eleventh-floor window of the Abbey Hotel in 1937.   One 
finds it difficult to pass censure on the lonely figure who waited 
for days for a saving word from his zealously served idol, W&R& 
Hearst. That word was withheld when the need of it seemed the measure 
of his despair. The unfinished note, written in pencil upon the back 
of a used envelope, and addressed to the coroner, makes one wonder 
about many things: "God forgive me for everything. <I cannot> 
**h"   Much to Damon Runyon's amazement, as well as my own, 
I got along splendidly with the Hetman; that is, until I became 
an editor, hence, in his eyes, a rival. Not long after Colonel Van 
Hamm had foisted me on the Watson staff I received a salary raise 
and a contract on the Hetman's recommendation. During the next years 
he gave me the second of the five contracts I would sign with the 
Hearst Service. It was a somewhat unusual thing for a reporter to 
have a contract in those days before the epidemic of syndicated columnists. 
I would like to believe that my ability warranted this advancement. 
Somehow I think that Watson paid more attention to me than he 
otherwise might have because his foe, Colonel Van Hamm, wouldn't 
touch me with a ten-foot blue pencil.   I remember one day when 
Mr& Hearst (and I never knew why <he> liked me, either) sent the 
Hetman a telegram: "Please find some more reporters like that 
young man from Denver". Watson showed this wire to Colonel Van Hamm. 
The colonel grunted, then made a remark which might be construed 
in either of two ways. "Don't bother to look any further. We already 
<have> the only one of its kind".   The Hetman did have 
friends, but they were mostly outside the newspaper profession. Sergeant 
Mike Donaldson, Congressional Medal of Honor soldier, was 
one of them. Dr& Menas S& Gregory was another. I used to go 
with Watson to call on the eminent neurologist at his apartment, to sit 
among the doctor's excellent collection of statues, paintings, and 
books and drink Oriental coffee while Watson seemed to thaw out and 
become almost affable.   There was one time, however, when his 
face clouded and he suddenly blurted, "Why did my brother commit 
suicide"?   I cannot remember Dr& Gregory's reply, if, 
indeed, he made one. 
If she were not at home, Mama would see to it that a fresh white rose 
was there. Sometimes, Mrs& Coolidge would close herself in the 
Green Suite on the second floor, and play the piano she had brought 
to the White House. Mama knew she was playing her son's favorite 
pieces and feeling close to him, and did not disturb her.   All 
the rest of the days in the White House would be shadowed by the tragic 
loss, even though the President tried harder than ever to make his 
little dry jokes and to tease the people around him.   A little 
boy came to give the President his personal condolences, and the President 
gave word that any little boy who wanted to see him was to be 
shown in. Backstairs, the maids cried a little over that, and the standing 
invitation was not mentioned to Mrs& Coolidge.   The 
President was even more generous with the First Lady than he had been 
before the tragedy. He would bring her boxes of candy and other presents 
to coax a smile to her lips.   He brought her shawls. Dresses 
were short in the days of Mrs& Coolidge, and Spanish shawls 
were thrown over them. He got her dozens of them. One shawl was so 
tremendous that she could not wear it, so she draped it over the banister 
on the second floor, and it hung over the stairway. The President 
used to look at it with a ghost of a smile.   Mrs& Coolidge 
spent more time in her bedroom among her doll collection. She kept 
the dolls on the Lincoln bed. At night, when Mama would turn back the 
covers, she would have to take all the dolls off the bed and place 
them elsewhere for the night. Mama always felt that the collection symbolized 
Mrs& Coolidge's wish for a little girl.   Among the 
dolls was one that meant very much to the First Lady, who would pick 
it up and look at it often. It had a tiny envelope tied to its wrist. 
An accompanying sympathetic letter explained that inside the envelope 
was a name for Mrs& Coolidge's first granddaughter. Mama 
knew this doll was meant to help Mrs& Coolidge overcome her grief 
by turning her eyes to the future. The name inside the envelope was "Cynthia".

The Coolidges' life, after the death of their 
son, was quieter than ever. John was away at school most of the time. 
Mrs& Coolidge would knit, and the President would sit reading, 
or playing with the many pets around them.   Now and then, the 
President would call for "Little Jack, Master of the Hounds", 
which was his nickname for a messenger who had worked in the White House 
since Teddy Roosevelt's administration, and discuss the welfare 
of some one of the animals. It was part of Little Jack's work 
to look after the dogs.   One White House dog was immortalized 
in a painting. That was Rob Roy, who posed with Mrs& Coolidge 
for the portrait by Howard Chandler Christy. To get him to pose, 
Mrs& Coolidge would feed him candy, so he enjoyed the portrait sessions 
as well as she did.   I would like to straighten out a misconception 
about the dress Mrs& Coolidge is wearing in this painting. 
It is not the same dress as the one on her manikin in the Smithsonian. 
People think the dress in the picture was lengthened by an artist 
much later on. This is not true. The dress in the painting is a 
bright red, with rhinestones forming a spray on the right side. There 
is a long train flowing from the shoulders.   Mrs& Coolidge 
gave Mama this dress for me, and I wore it many times. I still have 
the dress, and I hope to give it to the Smithsonian Institution 
as a memento, or, as I more fondly hope, to present it to a museum containing 
articles showing the daily lives of the Presidents- if I 
can get it organized.   But to get back to the Coolidge household, 
Mrs& Coolidge so obviously loved dogs, that the public sent her 
more dogs- Calamity Jane, Timmy, and Blackberry. The last two 
were a red and a black chow. Rob Roy remained boss of all the dogs. 
He showed them what to do, and taught them how to keep the maids around 
the White House in a state of terror.   The dogs would run 
through the halls after him like a burst of bullets, and all the maids 
would run for cover. Mama didn't know what to do- whether to tell 
on Rob Roy or not- since she had the ear of Mrs& Coolidge 
more than the other maids. But she was afraid the First Lady would 
not understand, because Rob Roy was a perfect angel with the First 
Family.   Every day, when the President took his nap, Rob Roy 
would stretch out on the window seat near him, like a perfect gentleman, 
and stare thoughtfully out the window, or he would take a little 
nap himself. He would not make a sound until the President had wakened 
and left for the office; then he would bark to let everyone know 
the coast was clear. His signal was for the other dogs to come running, 
but it was also the signal for Mama and the other maids to watch 
out.   Rob Roy was self-appointed to accompany the President to 
his office every morning. Rob Roy was well aware of the importance 
of this mission, and he would walk in front of the President, looking 
neither to the right nor to the left.   At dinner, lunch, or breakfast, 
the President would call out, "Supper"!- he called 
all meals supper- after the butler had announced the meal. All the 
dogs would dash to get on the elevator with the President and go to 
the dining room. They would all lie around on the rug during the meal, 
a very pretty sight as Rob Roy, Prudence, and Calamity Jane were 
all snow-white.   When Prudence and Blackberry were too young 
to be trusted in the dining room, they were tied to the radiator with 
their leashes, and they would cry. Mama tried to talk to them and keep 
them quiet while she tidied up the sitting room before the First 
Family returned.   Finally, Mama did mention to Mrs& Coolidge 
that she felt sorry for the little dogs, and then Mrs& Coolidge 
decided to leave the radio on for them while she was gone, even though 
her husband disapproved of the waste of electricity.   Mama was 
now the first maid to Mrs& Coolidge, because Catherine, the previous 
first maid, had become ill and died. Mrs& Coolidge chose Mama 
in her place. It was a high mark for Mama.   Every First 
Family seems to have one couple upon whom it relies for true friendship. 
For the Coolidges, it was Mr& and Mrs& Frank W& Stearns 
of Boston, Massachusetts, owners of a large department store. They 
seemed to be at the White House half the time. The butlers were 
amused because when the Stearns were there, the President would say 
grace at breakfast. If the Stearns were not there, grace would be omitted.

Speaking of breakfast, the President inaugurated a new 
custom- that of conducting business at the breakfast table. The word 
was that this too was part of an economy move on his part. A new bill 
had been passed under Harding that designated the Government, rather 
than the President, as the tab-lifter for official meals. So the 
President would make a hearty breakfast official by inviting Government 
officials to attend.   He caused a lot of talk when he also 
chose the breakfast hour to have the barber come in and trim his hair 
while he ate. Mama said that if Presidents were supposed to be colorful, 
Mr& Coolidge certainly made a good president. He knew exactly 
how to be colorful!   The favorite guest of the house, as 
far as the staff was concerned, was Mr& Wrigley, the chewing gum king. 
The White House had chewing gum until it could chew no more, and 
every Christmas, Mr& Wrigley sent the President a check for $100, 
to be divided among all the help. You can imagine that he got pretty 
good service.   Another good friend of the Coolidges' was 
George B& Harvey, who was the Ambassador to Great Britain from 
1921 to 1923. He had been a friend of the Hardings, and continued 
to be invited by the Coolidges.   The first royalty whom Mama 
ever waited on in the White House was Queen Marie of Rumania, 
who came to a State dinner given in her honor on October 21, 1926. 
She was not an overnight guest in the White House, but Mr& Ike 
Hoover, the chief usher, had Mama check her fur coat when she came 
in, and take care of her needs. Mama said she was one of the prettiest 
ladies she had ever seen.   Mama was very patriotic, and one of 
the duties she was proudest of was repairing the edges of the flag that 
flew above the White House. Actually, two flags were used at the 
mansion- a small one on rainy days, and a big one on bright days. 
The wool would become frazzled around the edges from blowing in the wind, 
and Mama would mend it. She would often go up on the roof to see 
the attendant take down the flag in the evening. She used to tell me, 
"When I stand there and look at the flag blowing this way and that 
way, I have the wonderful, safe feeling that Americans are protected 
no matter which way the wind blows".   Even when Mrs& 
Coolidge was in mourning for her son, she reached out to help other people 
in trouble. One person she helped was my brother. Mama had told 
her how Emmett's lungs had been affected when he was gassed in the 
war. He was in and out of Mount Alto Hospital for veterans any number 
of times.   Taking a personal interest, she had the doctor 
assigned to the White House, Dr& James Coupal, look Emmett over. 
As a result, he was sent to a hospital in Arizona until his health 
improved enough for him to come back to Washington to work in the 
Government service. But again, there was danger that his lungs would 
suffer in the muggy Washington weather, and he had to return to the 
dry climate of the West to live and work.   When Mrs& Coolidge 
was in mourning, she did not wear black. She wore grey every day, 
and white every evening. Mama knew that she was out of mourning when 
she finally wore bright colors. The President helped her a lot by selecting 
some lovely colored dresses to get her started. She opened the 
boxes with a tear in her eye and a sad smile on her face.   On 
the social side, the chore Mama had at the formal receptions at the 
White House thrilled her the most. It was her job to stand at the 
foot of the stairs, and, just as the First Lady stepped off the last 
tread, Mama would straighten out her long train before she marched to 
the Blue Room to greet her guests with the President. Mama would 
enjoy the sight of the famous guests as much as anyone, and would note 
a gown here and there to tell me about that night.   One night, 
Mama came home practically in a state of shock. She had stood at the 
bottom of the stairs, as usual, when Mrs& Coolidge came down, in 
the same dress that is now in the Smithsonian, to greet her guests. 
Mama stooped down to fix the train, but there was no train there! She 
reached and reached around the dress, but there was nothing there. 
She looked up and saw that, without knowing it, Mrs& Coolidge was 
holding it aloft. Mrs& Coolidge looked down, saw Mama's horrified 
expression and quickly let the whole thing fall to the floor. Mama 
swirled the train in place, and not a step was lost.   The Coolidges 
did not always live at the White House during the Presidency.

Impressive as this enumeration is, it barely hints at the diverse 
perceptions of Jews, collectively or individually, that have been 
attested by their Gentile environment. It is reasonable to affirm 
two propositions: <Jews have been perceived by non-Jews as all things 
to all men; some Jews have in fact been all things to all men>. 
In the arena of power Jews have at one time or another been somebody's 
ally; they have observed correct neutrality; they have been 
someone's enemy. In the market place Jews have in fact under various 
circumstances been valued customers and suppliers, or clannish monopolists 
and cutthroat competitors. And so on through the roles referred 
to in the previous paragraph. Diversity of perception, yes; diversity 
of fact, yes.   But the two do not invariably or even 
typically coincide. The "conventional" image of a particular time 
and place is not necessarily congruent with the image of the facts as 
established over the years by scholarly and scientific research. Conventional 
images of Jews have this in common with all perceptions of 
a configuration in which one feature is held constant: images can be 
both true and false.   The genuinely interesting question, then, 
becomes: What factors determine the degree of realism or distortion 
in conventional images of Jews? The working test of "the facts" 
must always be the best available description obtainable from scholars 
and scientists who have applied their methods of investigation 
to relevant situations. Granted, such "functional" images are subject 
to human error; they are self-correcting in the sense that they 
are subject to disciplined procedures that check and recheck against 
error.   In accounting for realism or distortion two sets of factors 
can be usefully distinguished: current intelligence; predispositions 
regarding intelligence. General Grant may have been the victim 
of false information in the instance reported in this book; if so, 
he would not be the first or last commanding officer who has succumbed 
to bad information and dubious estimates of the future. But General 
Grant may have been self-victimized. He may have entered the situation 
with predispositions that prepared him to act uncritically in the 
press of affairs.   Predispositions, in turn, fall conveniently 
into two categories for purposes of analysis. To some extent predispositions 
are shaped by exposure to group environments. In some measure 
they depend upon the structure of individual personality. The anti-Semitism 
of Hitler owed something to his exposure to the ideology of 
Lueger's politically successful Christian socialist movement in Vienna. 
But millions of human beings were exposed to Lueger's propaganda 
and record. After allowing for group exposures, it is apparent 
that other factors must be considered if we are to comprehend fanaticism. 
These are personality factors; they include harmonies and conflicts 
within the whole man, and mechanisms whereby inner components are 
more or less smoothly met. Modern psychiatric knowledge provides us 
with many keys to unlock the significance of behavior of the kind.

The foregoing factors are pertinent to the analysis of perceptual 
images and the broad conditions under which they achieve realism or 
fall short of it. Undoubtedly one merit of the vast panorama of Gentile 
conceptions of the Jew unfolded in the present anthology is that 
it provides a formidable body of material that invites critical examination 
in terms of reality. Many selections are themselves convincing 
contributions to this appraisal.   Undoubtedly, however, the significance 
of the volume is greater than the foregoing paragraphs suggest. 
Speaking as a non-Jew I believe that its primary contribution is 
in the realm of future policy. Since we can neither undo nor redo the 
past, we are limited to the events of today and tomorrow. In this 
domain the simple fact of coexistence in the same local, national, and 
world community is enough to guarantee that we cannot refrain from having 
some effect, large or small, upon Gentile-Jewish relations. What 
shall these effects be?   I am deliberately raising the policy 
problems involved in Gentile-Jewish relations. Comprehensive examination 
of any policy question calls for the performance of the intellectual 
tasks inseparable from any problem-solving method. The tasks 
are briefly indicated by these questions: What are my goals in Gentile-Jewish 
relations? What are the historical trends in this country 
and abroad in the extent to which these goals are effectively realized? 
What factors condition the degree of realization at various 
times and places? What is the probable course of future developments? 
What policies if adopted and applied in various circumstances will 
increase the likelihood that future events will coincide with desired 
events and do so at least cost in terms of all human values?

It is beyond the province of this epilogue to cover policy questions 
of such depth and range. The discussion is therefore limited to a 
suggested procedure for realizing at least some of the potential importance 
of this volume for future policy. As a groundwork for the proposal 
I give some attention to the first task enumerated above, the clarification 
of goal.   My reply is that I associate myself with 
all those who affirm that Gentile-Jewish relations should contribute 
to the theory and practice of human dignity. The basic goal finds partial 
expression in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a statement 
initiated and endorsed by individuals and organizations of many 
religious and philosophical traditions.   Within this frame of 
reference policies appropriate to claims advanced in the name of the 
Jews depend upon which Jewish identity is involved, as well as upon 
the nature of the claim, the characteristics of the claimant, the justifications 
proposed, and the predispositions of the community decision 
makers who are called upon to act. If Jews are identified as a religious 
body in a controversy that comes before a national or international 
tribunal, it is obviously compatible with the goal of human dignity 
to protect freedom of worship. When decision makers act within this 
frame they determine whether a claim put forward in the name of religion 
is to be accepted by the larger community as appropriate to religion. 
Since the recognition of Israel as a nation state, claims are made 
in many cases which identify the claimant as a member of the new body 
politic. Community decision makers must make up their minds whether 
a claim is acceptable to the larger community in terms of prevailing 
expectations regarding members of nation states. In free countries 
many controversies involve self-styled Jews who use the symbol in asserting 
a vaguely "cultural" rather than religious or political identity. 
The decision maker who acts for the community as a whole must 
decide whether the objectives pursued and the methods used are appropriate 
to public policy regarding cultural groups.   We know that 
much is made of the multiplicity and ambiguity of the identities that 
cluster around the key symbol of the Jew. Many public and private controversies 
will undoubtedly continue to reflect these confusions in 
the mind and usage of Gentile and Jew. However, in the context of legal 
and civic policy, these controversies are less than novel. They 
involve similar uncertainties regarding the multiple identities of any 
number of non-Jewish groups. So far as the existing body of formal 
principle and procedure is concerned, categorical novelties are not 
to be anticipated in Jewish-Gentile relationships; claims are properly 
disposed of according to norms common to all parties.   It 
is not implied that formal principles and procedures are so firmly entrenched 
within the public order of the world community or even of free 
commonwealths that they will control in all circumstances involving Jews 
and Gentiles during coming years. Social process is always anchored 
in past predisposition; but it is perennially restructured in situations 
where anchors are dragged or lost. In conformance with the 
maximization principle we affirm that Gentile-Jewish relations will 
be harmonious or inharmonious to the degree that one relation or the 
other is expected by the active participants to yield the greatest net 
advantage, taking all value outcomes and effects into consideration. 
It is not difficult to anticipate circumstances in which negative tensions 
will cumulate; for instance, imagine the situation if Israel 
ever joins an enemy coalition. The formal position of Americans who 
identify themselves with one or more of the several identities of the 
Jewish symbol is already clear; the future weight of informal factors 
cannot be so easily assessed.   When we consider the disorganized 
state of the world community, and the legacy of predispositions adversely 
directed against all who are identified as Jews, it is obvious 
that the struggle for the minds and muscles of men needs to be prosecuted 
with increasing vigor and skill. During moments of intense crisis 
the responsibility of political leaders is overwhelming. But their 
freedom of policy is limited by the pattern of predisposition with which 
they and the people around them enter the crisis. At such critical 
moments predispositions favorable to human dignity most obviously "pay 
off". By the same test predispositions destructive of human personality 
exercise their most sinister impact, with the result that men 
of good will are often trapped and nullified.   Among measures 
in anticipation of crisis are plans to inject into the turmoil as assistants 
of key decision makers qualified persons who are cognizant of 
the corrosive effect of crisis upon personal relationships and are also 
able to raise calm and realistic voices when overburdened leaders near 
the limit of self-control. We are learning how to do these things 
in some of the vast organized structures of modern society; the process 
can be accelerated.   A truism is that the time to prepare 
for the worst is when times are best. During intercrisis periods the 
educational facilities of the community have the possibility of remolding 
the perspectives and altering the behavior of vast numbers of human 
beings of every age and condition. As more men and women are made capable 
of living up to the challenge of decency the chances are improved 
that the pattern of predisposition prevailing in positions of strength 
in future crises can be favorably affected.   Now an abiding 
difficulty of paragraphs like the foregoing is that they appear to preach; 
and in contemporary society we often complain of too much reaffirmation 
of the goodness of the good. In any case I do not intend to 
let the present occasion pass without dealing more directly with the 
problem of implementing good intentions. I assume that the number of 
readers of this anthology who regard themselves as morally perfect is 
small, and that most readers are willing to consider procedures by which 
they may gain more insight into themselves and better understanding 
of others. Properly used, the present book is an excellent instrument 
of enlightenment.   Let us not confuse the issue by labeling 
the objective or the method "psychoanalytic", for this is a well established 
term of art for the specific ideas and procedures initiated 
by Sigmund Freud and his followers for the study and treatment of disordered 
personalities. The traditional method proceeds by the technique 
of free association, punctuated by interpretations proposed by the 
psychoanalytic interviewer.   What we have in mind does have 
something in common with the goals of psychoanalysis and with the methods 
by which they are sought. For what we propose, however, a psychoanalyst 
is not necessary, even though one aim is to enable the reader to 
get beneath his own defenses- his defenses of himself to himself. 
For this purpose a degree of intellectual and emotional involvement is 
necessary; but involvement needs to be accompanied by a special frame 
of mind.   The relatively long and often colorful selections 
in this anthology enable the reader to become genuinely absorbed in 
what is said, whether he responds with anger or applause. But simple 
involvement is not enough; self-discovery calls for an open, permissive, 
inquiring posture of self-observation.   The symposium provides 
an opportunity to confront the self with specific statements which 
were made at particular times by identifiable communicators who were 
addressing definite audiences- and throughout several hundred pages 